# BLOCKS
tile.immersiveengineering.ore.copper.name=Kupfererz
tile.immersiveengineering.ore.aluminum.name=Bauxiterz
tile.immersiveengineering.ore.lead.name=Bleierz
tile.immersiveengineering.ore.silver.name=Silbererz
tile.immersiveengineering.ore.nickel.name=Nickelerz
tile.immersiveengineering.ore.uranium.name=Uranerz

tile.immersiveengineering.storage.copper.name=Kupferblock
tile.immersiveengineering.storage.aluminum.name=Aluminiumblock
tile.immersiveengineering.storage.lead.name=Bleiblock
tile.immersiveengineering.storage.silver.name=Silberblock
tile.immersiveengineering.storage.nickel.name=Nickelblock
tile.immersiveengineering.storage.uranium.name=Uranblock
tile.immersiveengineering.storage.constantan.name=Konstantanblock
tile.immersiveengineering.storage.electrum.name=Elektrumblock
tile.immersiveengineering.storage.steel.name=Stahlblock

tile.immersiveengineering.storage_slab.copper.name=Kupferstufe
tile.immersiveengineering.storage_slab.aluminum.name=Aluminiumstufe
tile.immersiveengineering.storage_slab.lead.name=Bleistufe
tile.immersiveengineering.storage_slab.silver.name=Silberstufe
tile.immersiveengineering.storage_slab.nickel.name=Nickelstufe
tile.immersiveengineering.storage_slab.uranium.name=Uranstufe
tile.immersiveengineering.storage_slab.constantan.name=Konstantanstufe
tile.immersiveengineering.storage_slab.electrum.name=Elektrumstufe
tile.immersiveengineering.storage_slab.steel.name=Stahlstufe

tile.immersiveengineering.stone_decoration.cokebrick.name=Kokereiziegel
tile.immersiveengineering.stone_decoration.blastbrick.name=Brennziegel
tile.immersiveengineering.stone_decoration.blastbrick_reinforced.name=Verstärkter Brennziegel
tile.immersiveengineering.stone_decoration.coke.name=Koksblock
tile.immersiveengineering.stone_decoration.hempcrete.name=Hanfbeton
tile.immersiveengineering.stone_decoration.concrete.name=Beton
tile.immersiveengineering.stone_decoration.concrete_tile.name=Glatter Beton
tile.immersiveengineering.stone_decoration.concrete_leaded.name=Bleibeschlagener Beton
tile.immersiveengineering.stone_decoration.insulating_glass.name=Isolierendes Glass
tile.immersiveengineering.stone_decoration.concrete_sprayed.name=Schnelltrocknender Beton
tile.immersiveengineering.stone_decoration.alloybrick.name=Legierungsofenziegel
tile.immersiveengineering.stone_decoration_slab.cokebrick.name=Kokereiziegelstufe
tile.immersiveengineering.stone_decoration_slab.blastbrick.name=Brennziegelstufe
tile.immersiveengineering.stone_decoration_slab.blastbrick_reinforced.name=Verstärkte Brennziegelstufe
tile.immersiveengineering.stone_decoration_slab.coke.name=Koksstufe
tile.immersiveengineering.stone_decoration_slab.hempcrete.name=Hanfbetonstufe
tile.immersiveengineering.stone_decoration_slab.concrete.name=Betonstufe
tile.immersiveengineering.stone_decoration_slab.concrete_tile.name=Glatte Betonstufe
tile.immersiveengineering.stone_decoration_slab.concrete_leaded.name=Bleibeschlagene Betonstufe
tile.immersiveengineering.stone_decoration_slab.insulating_glass.name=Isolierende Glassstufe
tile.immersiveengineering.stone_decoration_slab.alloybrick.name=Ofenziegelstufe
tile.immersiveengineering.stone_decoration_stairs_hempcrete.name=Hanfbetontreppe
tile.immersiveengineering.stone_decoration_stairs_concrete.name=Betontreppe
tile.immersiveengineering.stone_decoration_stairs_concrete_tile.name=Glatte Betontreppe
tile.immersiveengineering.stone_decoration_stairs_concrete_leaded.name=Bleibeschlagene BetonStairs

tile.immersiveengineering.stone_device.coke_oven.name=Kokerei
tile.immersiveengineering.stone_device.blast_furnace.name=Grober Hochofen
tile.immersiveengineering.stone_device.blast_furnace_advanced.name=Verbesserter Hochofen
tile.immersiveengineering.stone_device.concrete_sheet.name=Betonplatte
tile.immersiveengineering.stone_device.concrete_quarter.name=Betonstufe
tile.immersiveengineering.stone_device.concrete_threequarter.name=Betonbrocken
tile.immersiveengineering.stone_device.coresample.name=Kernprope
tile.immersiveengineering.stone_device.alloy_smelter.name=Legierungsofen

tile.immersiveengineering.treated_wood.horizontal.name=Behandelte Holzbretter
tile.immersiveengineering.treated_wood.vertical.name=Behandelte Holzbretter
tile.immersiveengineering.treated_wood.packaged.name=Behandelte Holzbretter
tile.immersiveengineering.treated_wood_slab.horizontal.name=Behandelte Holzstufe
tile.immersiveengineering.treated_wood_slab.vertical.name=Behandelte Holzstufe
tile.immersiveengineering.treated_wood_slab.packaged.name=Behandelte Holzstufe
tile.immersiveengineering.treated_wood_stairs0.name=Behandelte Holztreppe
tile.immersiveengineering.treated_wood_stairs1.name=Behandelte Holztreppe
tile.immersiveengineering.treated_wood_stairs2.name=Behandelte Holztreppe

tile.immersiveengineering.wooden_decoration.fence.name=Behandelter Holzzaun
tile.immersiveengineering.wooden_decoration.scaffolding.name=Behandeltes Holzgerüst

tile.immersiveengineering.wooden_device0.barrel.name=Hölzernes Fass
tile.immersiveengineering.wooden_device0.crate.name=Hölzernere Lagerkiste
tile.immersiveengineering.wooden_device0.workbench.name=Ingenieurswerkbank
tile.immersiveengineering.wooden_device0.sorter.name=Gegenstandsverteiler
tile.immersiveengineering.wooden_device0.gunpowder_barrel.name=Schießpulverfass
tile.immersiveengineering.wooden_device0.reinforced_crate.name=Verstärkte Lagerkiste
tile.immersiveengineering.wooden_device0.turntable.name=Drehteller
tile.immersiveengineering.wooden_device0.fluid_sorter.name=Flüssigkeitsverteiler
tile.immersiveengineering.wooden_device1.watermill.name=Wasserrad
tile.immersiveengineering.wooden_device1.windmill.name=Windmühle
tile.immersiveengineering.wooden_device1.windmill_advanced.name=Verbesserte Windmühle
tile.immersiveengineering.wooden_device1.post.name=Hölzerner Pfosten
tile.immersiveengineering.wooden_device1.wallmount.name=Hölzerne Wandhalterung

tile.immersiveengineering.sheetmetal.copper.name=Kupferblech
tile.immersiveengineering.sheetmetal.aluminum.name=Aluminiumblech
tile.immersiveengineering.sheetmetal.lead.name=Bleiblech
tile.immersiveengineering.sheetmetal.silver.name=Silberblech
tile.immersiveengineering.sheetmetal.nickel.name=Nickelblech
tile.immersiveengineering.sheetmetal.uranium.name=Uranblech
tile.immersiveengineering.sheetmetal.constantan.name=Konstantanblech
tile.immersiveengineering.sheetmetal.electrum.name=Elektrumblech
tile.immersiveengineering.sheetmetal.steel.name=Stahlblech
tile.immersiveengineering.sheetmetal.iron.name=Eisenblech
tile.immersiveengineering.sheetmetal.gold.name=Goldblech
tile.immersiveengineering.sheetmetal_slab.copper.name=Kupferblechstufe
tile.immersiveengineering.sheetmetal_slab.aluminum.name=Aluminiumblechstufe
tile.immersiveengineering.sheetmetal_slab.lead.name=Bleiblechstufe
tile.immersiveengineering.sheetmetal_slab.silver.name=Silberblechstufe
tile.immersiveengineering.sheetmetal_slab.nickel.name=Nickelblechstufe
tile.immersiveengineering.sheetmetal_slab.uranium.name=Uranblechstufe
tile.immersiveengineering.sheetmetal_slab.constantan.name=Konstantanblechstufe
tile.immersiveengineering.sheetmetal_slab.electrum.name=Elektrumblechstufe
tile.immersiveengineering.sheetmetal_slab.steel.name=Stahlblechstufe
tile.immersiveengineering.sheetmetal_slab.iron.name=Eisenblechstufe
tile.immersiveengineering.sheetmetal_slab.gold.name=Goldblechstufe

tile.immersiveengineering.metal_decoration0.coil_lv.name=Kupferspulenblock
tile.immersiveengineering.metal_decoration0.coil_mv.name=Elektrumspulenblock
tile.immersiveengineering.metal_decoration0.coil_hv.name=Hochspannungsspulenblock
tile.immersiveengineering.metal_decoration0.rs_engineering.name=Redstone Maschinenblock
tile.immersiveengineering.metal_decoration0.light_engineering.name=Leichter Maschinenblock
tile.immersiveengineering.metal_decoration0.heavy_engineering.name=Schwerer Maschinenblock
tile.immersiveengineering.metal_decoration0.generator.name=Generatorblock
tile.immersiveengineering.metal_decoration0.radiator.name=Radiatorblock
tile.immersiveengineering.metal_decoration1.steel_fence.name=Stahlzaun
tile.immersiveengineering.metal_decoration1.steel_scaffolding_0.name=Stahlgerüst
tile.immersiveengineering.metal_decoration1.steel_scaffolding_1.name=Stahlgerüst
tile.immersiveengineering.metal_decoration1.steel_scaffolding_2.name=Stahlgerüst
tile.immersiveengineering.metal_decoration1.aluminum_fence.name=Aluminiumzaun
tile.immersiveengineering.metal_decoration1.aluminum_scaffolding_0.name=Aluminiumgerüst
tile.immersiveengineering.metal_decoration1.aluminum_scaffolding_1.name=Aluminiumgerüst
tile.immersiveengineering.metal_decoration1.aluminum_scaffolding_2.name=Aluminiumgerüst
tile.immersiveengineering.metal_decoration2.steel_post.name=Stahlpfosten
tile.immersiveengineering.metal_decoration2.steel_wallmount.name=Stahl Wandhalterung
tile.immersiveengineering.metal_decoration2.aluminum_post.name=Aluminiumpfosten
tile.immersiveengineering.metal_decoration2.aluminum_wallmount.name=Aluminium Wandhalterung
tile.immersiveengineering.metal_decoration2.lantern.name=Laterne
tile.immersiveengineering.metal_decoration2.razor_wire.name=Stacheldraht
tile.immersiveengineering.metal_decoration2.toolbox.name=Ingenieurswerkzeugkasten
tile.immersiveengineering.metal_decoration2.steel_slope.name=Stahlgerüstschräge
tile.immersiveengineering.metal_decoration2.alu_slope.name=Aluminiumgerüstschräge

tile.immersiveengineering.metal_decoration1_slab.steel_scaffolding_0.name=Stahlgerüststufe
tile.immersiveengineering.metal_decoration1_slab.steel_scaffolding_1.name=Stahlgerüststufe
tile.immersiveengineering.metal_decoration1_slab.steel_scaffolding_2.name=Stahlgerüststufe
tile.immersiveengineering.metal_decoration1_slab.aluminum_scaffolding_0.name=Aluminiumgerüststufe
tile.immersiveengineering.metal_decoration1_slab.aluminum_scaffolding_1.name=Aluminiumgerüststufe
tile.immersiveengineering.metal_decoration1_slab.aluminum_scaffolding_2.name=Aluminiumgerüststufe
tile.immersiveengineering.steel_scaffolding_stairs0.name=Stahlgerüsttreppe
tile.immersiveengineering.steel_scaffolding_stairs1.name=Stahlgerüsttreppe
tile.immersiveengineering.steel_scaffolding_stairs2.name=Stahlgerüsttreppe
tile.immersiveengineering.aluminum_scaffolding_stairs0.name=Aluminiumgerüsttreppe
tile.immersiveengineering.aluminum_scaffolding_stairs1.name=Aluminiumgerüsttreppe
tile.immersiveengineering.aluminum_scaffolding_stairs2.name=Aluminiumgerüsttreppe

tile.immersiveengineering.metal_ladder.normal.name=Metallleiter
tile.immersiveengineering.metal_ladder.covered_steel.name=Leiter mit Gerüst
tile.immersiveengineering.metal_ladder.covered_aluminum.name=Leiter mit Gerüst

tile.immersiveengineering.connector.connector_lv.name=LV Kabelverbinder
tile.immersiveengineering.connector.relay_lv.name=LV Kabel Relais
tile.immersiveengineering.connector.connector_mv.name=MV Kabelverbinder
tile.immersiveengineering.connector.relay_mv.name=MV Kabel Relais
tile.immersiveengineering.connector.connector_hv.name=HV Kabelverbinder
tile.immersiveengineering.connector.relay_hv.name=HV Kabel Relais
tile.immersiveengineering.connector.connector_structural.name=Gerüstkabelverbinder
tile.immersiveengineering.connector.transformer.name=Transformator
tile.immersiveengineering.connector.transformer_hv.name=HV Transformator
tile.immersiveengineering.connector.breakerswitch.name=Unterbrecherschalter
tile.immersiveengineering.connector.redstone_breaker.name=Redstone Unterbrecherschalter
tile.immersiveengineering.connector.energy_meter.name=Spannungswandler
tile.immersiveengineering.connector.connector_redstone.name=Redstone Kabelverbinder
tile.immersiveengineering.connector.connector_probe.name=Redstone Sondenverbinder
tile.immersiveengineering.connector.feedthrough.name=Durchgangsisolator

tile.immersiveengineering.metal_device0.capacitor_lv.name=LV Kondensator
tile.immersiveengineering.metal_device0.capacitor_mv.name=MV Kondensator
tile.immersiveengineering.metal_device0.capacitor_hv.name=HV Kondensator
tile.immersiveengineering.metal_device0.capacitor_creative.name=Creative Kondensator
tile.immersiveengineering.metal_device0.barrel.name=Metallfass
tile.immersiveengineering.metal_device0.fluid_pump.name=Flüssigkeitspumpe
tile.immersiveengineering.metal_device0.fluid_placer.name=Flüssigkeitsauslass
tile.immersiveengineering.metal_device1.blast_furnace_preheater.name=Hochofenvorheizer
tile.immersiveengineering.metal_device1.furnace_heater.name=Externer Heizer
tile.immersiveengineering.metal_device1.dynamo.name=Kinetischer Dynamo
tile.immersiveengineering.metal_device1.thermoelectric_gen.name=Thermoelektrischer Generator
tile.immersiveengineering.metal_device1.electric_lantern.name=Strombetriebene Laterne
tile.immersiveengineering.metal_device1.charging_station.name=Ladestation
tile.immersiveengineering.metal_device1.fluid_pipe.name=Flüssigkeitsrohr
tile.immersiveengineering.metal_device1.sample_drill.name=Kernpropenbohrer
tile.immersiveengineering.metal_device1.tesla_coil.name=Teslaspule
tile.immersiveengineering.metal_device1.floodlight.name=Flutlicht
tile.immersiveengineering.metal_device1.turret_chem.name=Chemikalienwerferturm
tile.immersiveengineering.metal_device1.turret_gun.name=Geschützturm
tile.immersiveengineering.metal_device1.belljar.name=Gartenglocke

tile.immersiveengineering.conveyor.immersiveengineering:conveyor.name=Fließband
tile.immersiveengineering.conveyor.immersiveengineering:uncontrolled.name=Fließband
tile.immersiveengineering.conveyor.immersiveengineering:uncontrolled.flavour=Ignoriert Redstone Kontrolle
tile.immersiveengineering.conveyor.immersiveengineering:dropper.name=Fallenlassendes Fließband
tile.immersiveengineering.conveyor.immersiveengineering:droppercovered.name=Fallenlassendes abgedecktes Fließband
tile.immersiveengineering.conveyor.immersiveengineering:vertical.name=Vertikales Fließband
tile.immersiveengineering.conveyor.immersiveengineering:splitter.name=Teilendes Fließband
tile.immersiveengineering.conveyor.immersiveengineering:covered.name=Abgedecktes Fließband
tile.immersiveengineering.conveyor.immersiveengineering:verticalcovered.name=Vertikales abgedecktes Fließband
tile.immersiveengineering.conveyor.immersiveengineering:extract.name=Extrahierendes Fließband
tile.immersiveengineering.conveyor.immersiveengineering:extractcovered.name=Abgedecktes extrahierendes Fließband

tile.immersiveengineering.metal_multiblock.metal_press.name=Metallpresse
tile.immersiveengineering.metal_multiblock.crusher.name=Brecher
tile.immersiveengineering.metal_multiblock.tank.name=Flüssigkeitstank
tile.immersiveengineering.metal_multiblock.silo.name=Gegenstandssilo
tile.immersiveengineering.metal_multiblock.assembler.name=Bauer
tile.immersiveengineering.metal_multiblock.auto_workbench.name=Automatisierte Ingenieurswerkbank
tile.immersiveengineering.metal_multiblock.bottling_machine.name=Befüllungsaschine
tile.immersiveengineering.metal_multiblock.squeezer.name=Industrieller Auspresser
tile.immersiveengineering.metal_multiblock.fermenter.name=Industrieller Fermentierer
tile.immersiveengineering.metal_multiblock.refinery.name=Raffinerie
tile.immersiveengineering.metal_multiblock.diesel_generator.name=Dieselgenerator
tile.immersiveengineering.metal_multiblock.excavator.name=Bagger
tile.immersiveengineering.metal_multiblock.bucket_wheel.name=Schaufelrad
tile.immersiveengineering.metal_multiblock.arc_furnace.name=Lichtbogenofen
tile.immersiveengineering.metal_multiblock.lightningrod.name=Blitzableiter
tile.immersiveengineering.metal_multiblock.mixer.name=Mixer

tile.immersiveengineering.metal_decoration.structural_arm.name=Gerüstschräge

tile.immersiveengineering.hemp.name=Industrieller Hanf

tile.immersiveengineering.cloth_device.cushion.name=Sprungtuch
tile.immersiveengineering.cloth_device.balloon.name=Ballon
tile.immersiveengineering.cloth_device.stripcurtain.name=Streifenvorhang

tile.immersiveengineering.molten_uranium.name=geschmolzenes Uran
tile.immersiveengineering.molten_constantan.name=geschmolzenes Konstantan

tile.immersiveengineering.arb_solid.name=beliebiger fester Block

#Hydraulicraft Compat
tile.harvesterTrolley.ieCrop.name=Industrieller Hanferntewagen 

tile.immersiveengineering.fluidCreosote.name=Teeröl
tile.immersiveengineering.fluidPlantoil.name=Planzenöl
tile.immersiveengineering.fluidEthanol.name=Ethanol
tile.immersiveengineering.fluidBiodiesel.name=Biodiesel
tile.immersiveengineering.fluidConcrete.name=Flüssigbeton

fluid.creosote=Teeröl
fluid.plantoil=Planzenöl
fluid.ethanol=Ethanol
fluid.biodiesel=Biodiesel
fluid.concrete=Flüssigbeton
fluid.potion=Trank

# ITEMS
item.immersiveengineering.metal.ingot_copper.name=Kupferbarren
item.immersiveengineering.metal.ingot_aluminum.name=Aluminiumbarren
item.immersiveengineering.metal.ingot_lead.name=Bleibarren
item.immersiveengineering.metal.ingot_silver.name=Silberbarren
item.immersiveengineering.metal.ingot_nickel.name=Nickelbarren
item.immersiveengineering.metal.ingot_uranium.name=Uranbarren
item.immersiveengineering.metal.ingot_constantan.name=Konstantanbarren
item.immersiveengineering.metal.ingot_electrum.name=Elektrumbarren
item.immersiveengineering.metal.ingot_steel.name=Stahlbarren
item.immersiveengineering.metal.dust_copper.name=Kupferpulver
item.immersiveengineering.metal.dust_aluminum.name=Aluminiumpulver
item.immersiveengineering.metal.dust_lead.name=Bleipulver
item.immersiveengineering.metal.dust_silver.name=Silberpulver
item.immersiveengineering.metal.dust_nickel.name=Nickelpulver
item.immersiveengineering.metal.dust_uranium.name=Uranpulver
item.immersiveengineering.metal.dust_constantan.name=Konstantanpulver
item.immersiveengineering.metal.dust_electrum.name=Elektrumpulver
item.immersiveengineering.metal.dust_steel.name=Stahlpulver
item.immersiveengineering.metal.dust_iron.name=Eisenpulver
item.immersiveengineering.metal.dust_gold.name=Goldpulver
item.immersiveengineering.metal.nugget_copper.name=Kupferklumpen
item.immersiveengineering.metal.nugget_aluminum.name=Aluminiumklumpen
item.immersiveengineering.metal.nugget_lead.name=Bleiklumpen
item.immersiveengineering.metal.nugget_silver.name=Silberklumpen
item.immersiveengineering.metal.nugget_nickel.name=Nickelklumpen
item.immersiveengineering.metal.nugget_uranium.name=Uranklumpen
item.immersiveengineering.metal.nugget_constantan.name=Konstantanklumpen
item.immersiveengineering.metal.nugget_electrum.name=Elektrumklumpen
item.immersiveengineering.metal.nugget_steel.name=Stahlklumpen
item.immersiveengineering.metal.nugget_iron.name=Eisenklumpen
item.immersiveengineering.metal.plate_copper.name=Kupferplatte
item.immersiveengineering.metal.plate_aluminum.name=Aluminiumplatte
item.immersiveengineering.metal.plate_lead.name=Bleiplatte
item.immersiveengineering.metal.plate_silver.name=Silberplatte
item.immersiveengineering.metal.plate_nickel.name=Nickelplatte
item.immersiveengineering.metal.plate_uranium.name=Uranplatte
item.immersiveengineering.metal.plate_constantan.name=Konstantanplatte
item.immersiveengineering.metal.plate_electrum.name=Elektrumplatte
item.immersiveengineering.metal.plate_steel.name=Stahlplatte
item.immersiveengineering.metal.plate_iron.name=Eisenplatte
item.immersiveengineering.metal.plate_gold.name=Goldplatte


item.immersiveengineering.material.stick_treated.name=Behandelter Stab
item.immersiveengineering.material.stick_iron.name=Eisenstab
item.immersiveengineering.material.stick_steel.name=Stahlstab
item.immersiveengineering.material.stick_aluminum.name=Aluminiumstab
item.immersiveengineering.material.hemp_fiber.name=Industrielle Hanffaser
item.immersiveengineering.material.hemp_fabric.name=Robuster Stoff
item.immersiveengineering.material.coal_coke.name=Kohlekoks
item.immersiveengineering.material.slag.name=Schlacke
item.immersiveengineering.material.component_iron.name=Eisenmechanikteil
item.immersiveengineering.material.component_steel.name=Stahlmechanikteil
item.immersiveengineering.material.waterwheel_segment.name=Wasserrandsegment
item.immersiveengineering.material.windmill_blade.name=Windmühlenblatt
item.immersiveengineering.material.windmill_sail.name=Windmühlensegel
item.immersiveengineering.material.wooden_grip.name=Hölzerner Griff
item.immersiveengineering.material.gunpart_barrel.name=Revolverlauf
item.immersiveengineering.material.gunpart_drum.name=Revolvertrommel
item.immersiveengineering.material.gunpart_hammer.name=Revolverhahn
item.immersiveengineering.material.dust_coke.name=Kokspulver
item.immersiveengineering.material.dust_hop_graphite.name=HOP Graphitpulver
item.immersiveengineering.material.ingot_hop_graphite.name=HOP Graphitbarren
item.immersiveengineering.material.wire_copper.name=Kupferkabel
item.immersiveengineering.material.wire_electrum.name=Elektrumkabel
item.immersiveengineering.material.wire_aluminum.name=Aluminiumkabel
item.immersiveengineering.material.wire_steel.name=Stahlkabel
item.immersiveengineering.material.dust_saltpeter.name=Nitratpulver
item.immersiveengineering.material.dust_sulfur.name=Schwefelpulver
item.immersiveengineering.material.electron_tube.name=Vacuumröhre
item.immersiveengineering.material.circuit_board.name=Leiterplatte

item.immersiveengineering.seed.hemp.name=Industrielle Hanfsamen

item.immersiveengineering.fluidContainers.bottleCreosote.name=Flasche mit Teeröl
item.immersiveengineering.fluidContainers.bucketCreosote.name=Eimer mit Teeröl
item.immersiveengineering.fluidContainers.bottlePlantoil.name=Flasche mit Planzenöl
item.immersiveengineering.fluidContainers.bucketPlantoil.name=Eimer mit Planzenöl
item.immersiveengineering.fluidContainers.bottleEthanol.name=Flasche mit Ethanol
item.immersiveengineering.fluidContainers.bucketEthanol.name=Eimer mit Ethanol
item.immersiveengineering.fluidContainers.bottleBiodiesel.name=Flasche mit Biodiesel
item.immersiveengineering.fluidContainers.bucketBiodiesel.name=Eimer mit Biodiesel

item.immersiveengineering.wirecoil.copper.name=LV Drahtspule
item.immersiveengineering.wirecoil.insulated_copper.name=Isolierte LV Drahtspule
item.immersiveengineering.wirecoil.electrum.name=MV Drahtspule
item.immersiveengineering.wirecoil.insulated_electrum.name=Isolierte MV Drahtspule
item.immersiveengineering.wirecoil.hv.name=HV Drahtspule
item.immersiveengineering.wirecoil.rope.name=Hanfseilspule
item.immersiveengineering.wirecoil.structural.name=Stahl Kabelspule
item.immersiveengineering.wirecoil.redstone.name=Redstone Drahtspule
item.immersiveengineering.tool.hammer.name=Ingenieurshammer
item.immersiveengineering.tool.wirecutter.name=Ingenieursseitenschneider
item.immersiveengineering.tool.voltmeter.name=Ingenieursvoltmeter
item.immersiveengineering.tool.manual.name=Ingenieurshandbuch
item.immersiveengineering.toolbox.name=Ingenieurswerkzeugkasten

item.immersiveengineering.pickaxe_steel.name=Stahlspitzhacke
item.immersiveengineering.shovel_steel.name=Stahlschaufel
item.immersiveengineering.axe_steel.name=Stahlaxt
item.immersiveengineering.sword_steel.name=Stahlschwert

item.immersiveengineering.revolver.name=Revolver
item.immersiveengineering.revolver.dev.name=♛Royal Vanquisher♚
item.immersiveengineering.revolver.infinity.name=Catalyst
item.immersiveengineering.revolver.tesla.name=The Coilgun
item.immersiveengineering.revolver.sns.name=Steamroller
item.immersiveengineering.revolver.nerf.name=Nerf'd Revolver
item.immersiveengineering.revolver.oblivion.name=Oblivion
item.immersiveengineering.revolver.oathkeeper.name=Oathkeeper
item.immersiveengineering.revolver.bee.name=Beevolver
item.immersiveengineering.revolver.fenrir.name=Fenrir
item.immersiveengineering.revolver.earthshaker.name=§bEarthshaker§r
item.immersiveengineering.revolver.warlord.name=The Repulsor
item.immersiveengineering.revolver.superchief.name=The Super Chief
item.immersiveengineering.revolver.rose.name=Divine Rose
item.immersiveengineering.revolver.noName.name=No Name
item.immersiveengineering.revolver.patreonBlu.name=§6Last Word§r
item.immersiveengineering.revolver.patreonHazard.name=§4Twisted Phantom§r
item.immersiveengineering.speedloader.name=Revolver Speedloader

item.immersiveengineering.bullet.empty_casing.name=Leere Hülse
item.immersiveengineering.bullet.empty_shell.name=Leere Patrone
item.immersiveengineering.bullet.casull.name=Casull Patrone
item.immersiveengineering.bullet.armor_piercing.name=Panzerbrechende Patrone
item.immersiveengineering.bullet.buckshot.name=Schrotpatrone
item.immersiveengineering.bullet.he.name=Hochexplosivpatrone
item.immersiveengineering.bullet.dragonsbreath.name=Drachenatempatrone
item.immersiveengineering.bullet.wolfpack.name=Wolfsrudelpatrone
item.immersiveengineering.bullet.silver.name=Silberpatrone
item.immersiveengineering.bullet.potion.name=Phiolenpatrone
item.immersiveengineering.bullet.potion.splash.name=Bereichs Phiolenpatrone
item.immersiveengineering.bullet.potion.linger.name=Bleibende Phiolenpatrone
item.immersiveengineering.bullet.flare.name=Brandpatrone

item.immersiveengineering.drill.diesel.name=Bergbaubohrer
item.immersiveengineering.drillhead.iron.name=Eisenbohrkopf
item.immersiveengineering.drillhead.steel.name=Stahlbohrkopf

item.immersiveengineering.skyhook.name=Ingenieurslufthaken

item.immersiveengineering.toolupgrade.drill_waterproof.name=Drucklufttank
item.immersiveengineering.toolupgrade.drill_lube.name=Verbessertes Schmiersystem
item.immersiveengineering.toolupgrade.drill_damage.name=Zusatzbohrer
item.immersiveengineering.toolupgrade.drill_capacity.name=Großer Tank
item.immersiveengineering.toolupgrade.revolver_bayonet.name=Bayonett
item.immersiveengineering.toolupgrade.revolver_magazine.name=Erweitertes Magazin
item.immersiveengineering.toolupgrade.revolver_electro.name=Verstärker Elektronenröhre
item.immersiveengineering.toolupgrade.chemthrower_focus.name=Fokussierte Düse
item.immersiveengineering.toolupgrade.railgun_scope.name=Präzisionsfernrohr
item.immersiveengineering.toolupgrade.railgun_capacitors.name=Zusätzliche Kondensatoren
item.immersiveengineering.toolupgrade.shield_flash.name=Blitzlampe
item.immersiveengineering.toolupgrade.shield_shock.name=Schockerzeuger
item.immersiveengineering.toolupgrade.shield_magnet.name=Magnetischer Handschuh
item.immersiveengineering.toolupgrade.chemthrower_multitank.name=Multitank

item.immersiveengineering.blueprint.name=Ingenieursblaupause
item.immersiveengineering.mold.plate.name=Metallpressenform: Platte
item.immersiveengineering.mold.gear.name=Metallpressenform: Zahnrad
item.immersiveengineering.mold.rod.name=Metallpressenform: Stab
item.immersiveengineering.mold.bullet_casing.name=Metallpressenform: Patronenhülse
item.immersiveengineering.mold.wire.name=Metallpressenform: Draht
item.immersiveengineering.mold.packing4.name=Metallpressenform: Packend 2x2
item.immersiveengineering.mold.packing9.name=Metallpressenform: Packend 3x3
item.immersiveengineering.mold.unpacking.name=Metallpressenform: Auspackend

item.immersiveengineering.graphite_electrode.name=Graphitelektrode
item.immersiveengineering.shader.name=Shader
item.immersiveengineering.shader_bag.name=Shader Grabbelbeutel
item.immersiveengineering.jerrycan.name=Kanister
item.immersiveengineering.chemthrower.name=Chemikalienwerfer
item.immersiveengineering.railgun.name=Schienenkanone
item.immersiveengineering.earmuffs.name=Gehörschutz
item.immersiveengineering.coresample.name=Kernprobe
item.immersiveengineering.faraday_suit_head.name=Faraday Helm
item.immersiveengineering.faraday_suit_chest.name=Faraday Brustplatte
item.immersiveengineering.faraday_suit_legs.name=Faraday Hose
item.immersiveengineering.faraday_suit_feet.name=Faraday Stiefel
item.immersiveengineering.fluorescent_tube.name=Fluorezierende Röhre
item.immersiveengineering.powerpack.name=Kondensatorrucksack
item.immersiveengineering.shield.name=Schwer beschlagener Schild
item.immersiveengineering.maintenance_kit.name=Wartungskit

item.immersiveengineering.map_orevein.name=Mineralienvorkommenkarte

#CREATIVE
itemGroup.immersiveengineering=Immersive Engineering

#ENTITIES
entity.immersiveengineering.skylineHook.name=Lufthook
entity.immersiveengineering.explosive.name=Explosiv
entity.immersiveengineering.fluorescentTube.name=Fluorezierende Röhre

#BANNERS
#Whoever at Mojang came up with this formatting system needs to be slapped.
#Colours and Types seperately would make this so much nicer >=c
item.banner.immersiveengineering_hammer.black=Schwarzer Hammer
item.banner.immersiveengineering_hammer.red=Roter Hammer
item.banner.immersiveengineering_hammer.green=Grüner Hammer
item.banner.immersiveengineering_hammer.brown=Brauner Hammer
item.banner.immersiveengineering_hammer.blue=Blauer Hammer
item.banner.immersiveengineering_hammer.purple=Lila Hammer
item.banner.immersiveengineering_hammer.cyan=Türkiser Hammer
item.banner.immersiveengineering_hammer.silver=Hellgrauer Hammer
item.banner.immersiveengineering_hammer.gray=Grauer Hammer
item.banner.immersiveengineering_hammer.pink=Rosa Hammer
item.banner.immersiveengineering_hammer.lime=Hellgrüner Hammer
item.banner.immersiveengineering_hammer.yellow=Gelber Hammer
item.banner.immersiveengineering_hammer.lightBlue=Hellblauer Hammer
item.banner.immersiveengineering_hammer.magenta=Magenta Hammer
item.banner.immersiveengineering_hammer.orange=Oranger Hammer
item.banner.immersiveengineering_hammer.white=Weißer Hammer
item.banner.immersiveengineering_bevels.black=Schwarze Platte
item.banner.immersiveengineering_bevels.red=Rote Platte
item.banner.immersiveengineering_bevels.green=Grüne Platte
item.banner.immersiveengineering_bevels.brown=Braune Platte
item.banner.immersiveengineering_bevels.blue=Blaue Platte
item.banner.immersiveengineering_bevels.purple=Lila Platte
item.banner.immersiveengineering_bevels.cyan=Türkise Platte
item.banner.immersiveengineering_bevels.silver=Hellgraue Platte
item.banner.immersiveengineering_bevels.gray=Graue Platte
item.banner.immersiveengineering_bevels.pink=Rosa Platte
item.banner.immersiveengineering_bevels.lime=Hellgrüne Platte
item.banner.immersiveengineering_bevels.yellow=gGelbe Platte
item.banner.immersiveengineering_bevels.lightBlue=Hellblaue Platte
item.banner.immersiveengineering_bevels.magenta=Magenta Platte
item.banner.immersiveengineering_bevels.orange=Orange Platte
item.banner.immersiveengineering_bevels.white=Weiße Platte
item.banner.immersiveengineering_ornate.black=Schwarzer Ornatrahmen
item.banner.immersiveengineering_ornate.red=Roter Ornatrahmen
item.banner.immersiveengineering_ornate.green=Grüner Ornatrahmen
item.banner.immersiveengineering_ornate.brown=Brauner Ornatrahmen
item.banner.immersiveengineering_ornate.blue=Blauer Ornatrahmen
item.banner.immersiveengineering_ornate.purple=Lila Ornatrahmen
item.banner.immersiveengineering_ornate.cyan=Türkiser Ornatrahmen
item.banner.immersiveengineering_ornate.silver=Hellgrauer Ornatrahmen
item.banner.immersiveengineering_ornate.gray=Grauer Ornatrahmen
item.banner.immersiveengineering_ornate.pink=Rosa Ornatrahmen
item.banner.immersiveengineering_ornate.lime=Hellgrüner Ornatrahmen
item.banner.immersiveengineering_ornate.yellow=Gelber Ornatrahmen
item.banner.immersiveengineering_ornate.lightBlue=Hellblauer Ornatrahmen
item.banner.immersiveengineering_ornate.magenta=Magenta Ornatrahmen
item.banner.immersiveengineering_ornate.orange=Oranger Ornatrahmen
item.banner.immersiveengineering_ornate.white=Weißer Ornatrahmen
item.banner.immersiveengineering_treated_wood.black=Schwarze Holzpanele
item.banner.immersiveengineering_treated_wood.red=Rote Holzpanele
item.banner.immersiveengineering_treated_wood.green=Grüne Holzpanele
item.banner.immersiveengineering_treated_wood.brown=Braune Holzpanele
item.banner.immersiveengineering_treated_wood.blue=Blaue Holzpanele
item.banner.immersiveengineering_treated_wood.purple=Lila Holzpanele
item.banner.immersiveengineering_treated_wood.cyan=Türkise Holzpanele
item.banner.immersiveengineering_treated_wood.silver=Hellgraue Holzpanele
item.banner.immersiveengineering_treated_wood.gray=Graue Holzpanele
item.banner.immersiveengineering_treated_wood.pink=Rosa Holzpanele
item.banner.immersiveengineering_treated_wood.lime=Hellgrüne Holzpanele
item.banner.immersiveengineering_treated_wood.yellow=Gelbe Holzpanele
item.banner.immersiveengineering_treated_wood.lightBlue=Hellblaue Holzpanele
item.banner.immersiveengineering_treated_wood.magenta=Magenta Holzpanele
item.banner.immersiveengineering_treated_wood.orange=Orange Holzpanele
item.banner.immersiveengineering_treated_wood.white=Weiße Holzpanele
item.banner.immersiveengineering_windmill.black=Schwarze Windmühle
item.banner.immersiveengineering_windmill.red=Rote Windmühle
item.banner.immersiveengineering_windmill.green=Grüne Windmühle
item.banner.immersiveengineering_windmill.brown=Braune Windmühle
item.banner.immersiveengineering_windmill.blue=Blaue Windmühle
item.banner.immersiveengineering_windmill.purple=Lila Windmühle
item.banner.immersiveengineering_windmill.cyan=Türkise Windmühle
item.banner.immersiveengineering_windmill.silver=Hellgraue Windmühle
item.banner.immersiveengineering_windmill.gray=Graue Windmühle
item.banner.immersiveengineering_windmill.pink=Rosa Windmühle
item.banner.immersiveengineering_windmill.lime=Hellgrüne Windmühle
item.banner.immersiveengineering_windmill.yellow=Gelbe Windmühle
item.banner.immersiveengineering_windmill.lightBlue=Hellblaue Windmühle
item.banner.immersiveengineering_windmill.magenta=Magenta Windmühle
item.banner.immersiveengineering_windmill.orange=Orange Windmühle
item.banner.immersiveengineering_windmill.white=Weiße Windmühle
item.banner.immersiveengineering_wolf_r.black=Schwarzer Wolf (right)
item.banner.immersiveengineering_wolf_r.red=Roter Wolf (right)
item.banner.immersiveengineering_wolf_r.green=Grüner Wolf (right)
item.banner.immersiveengineering_wolf_r.brown=Brauner Wolf (right)
item.banner.immersiveengineering_wolf_r.blue=Blauer Wolf (right)
item.banner.immersiveengineering_wolf_r.purple=Lila Wolf (right)
item.banner.immersiveengineering_wolf_r.cyan=Türkiser Wolf (right)
item.banner.immersiveengineering_wolf_r.silver=Hellgrauer Wolf (right)
item.banner.immersiveengineering_wolf_r.gray=Grauer Wolf (right)
item.banner.immersiveengineering_wolf_r.pink=Rosa Wolf (right)
item.banner.immersiveengineering_wolf_r.lime=Hellgrüner Wolf (right)
item.banner.immersiveengineering_wolf_r.yellow=Gelber Wolf (right)
item.banner.immersiveengineering_wolf_r.lightBlue=Hellblauer Wolf (right)
item.banner.immersiveengineering_wolf_r.magenta=Magenta Wolf (right)
item.banner.immersiveengineering_wolf_r.orange=Oranger Wolf (right)
item.banner.immersiveengineering_wolf_r.white=Weißer Wolf (right)
item.banner.immersiveengineering_wolf_l.black=Schwarzer Wolf (left)
item.banner.immersiveengineering_wolf_l.red=Roter Wolf (left)
item.banner.immersiveengineering_wolf_l.green=Grüner Wolf (left)
item.banner.immersiveengineering_wolf_l.brown=Brauner Wolf (left)
item.banner.immersiveengineering_wolf_l.blue=Blauer Wolf (left)
item.banner.immersiveengineering_wolf_l.purple=Lila Wolf (left)
item.banner.immersiveengineering_wolf_l.cyan=Türkiser Wolf (left)
item.banner.immersiveengineering_wolf_l.silver=Hellgrauer Wolf (left)
item.banner.immersiveengineering_wolf_l.gray=Grauer Wolf (left)
item.banner.immersiveengineering_wolf_l.pink=Rosa Wolf (left)
item.banner.immersiveengineering_wolf_l.lime=Hellgrüner Wolf (left)
item.banner.immersiveengineering_wolf_l.yellow=Gelber Wolf (left)
item.banner.immersiveengineering_wolf_l.lightBlue=Hellblauer Wolf (left)
item.banner.immersiveengineering_wolf_l.magenta=Magenta Wolf (left)
item.banner.immersiveengineering_wolf_l.orange=Oranger Wolf (left)
item.banner.immersiveengineering_wolf_l.white=Weißer Wolf (left)
item.banner.immersiveengineering_wolf.black=Schwarzer Wolf
item.banner.immersiveengineering_wolf.red=Roter Wolf
item.banner.immersiveengineering_wolf.green=Grüner Wolf
item.banner.immersiveengineering_wolf.brown=Brauner Wolf
item.banner.immersiveengineering_wolf.blue=Blauer Wolf
item.banner.immersiveengineering_wolf.purple=Lila Wolf
item.banner.immersiveengineering_wolf.cyan=Türkiser Wolf
item.banner.immersiveengineering_wolf.silver=Hellgrauer Wolf
item.banner.immersiveengineering_wolf.gray=Grauer Wolf
item.banner.immersiveengineering_wolf.pink=Rosa Wolf
item.banner.immersiveengineering_wolf.lime=Hellgrüner Wolf
item.banner.immersiveengineering_wolf.yellow=Gelber Wolf
item.banner.immersiveengineering_wolf.lightBlue=Hellblauer Wolf
item.banner.immersiveengineering_wolf.magenta=Magenta Wolf
item.banner.immersiveengineering_wolf.orange=Oranger Wolf
item.banner.immersiveengineering_wolf.white=Weißer Wolf

#COMPAT THINGS
#TINKERS CONSTRUCT COMPAT
fluid.uranium=geschmolzenes Uran
fluid.constantan=geschmolzenes Constantan
material.treatedwood.name=Behandeltes Holz
material.constantan.name=Konstantan
material.hemp.name=Hanffaser
modifier.thermalinversion.name=Thermal Inversion
modifier.thermalinversion.desc=§oHot & Cold!§r\nHitting an enemy in a hot or cold environment will chill or burn them.
#BOTANIA COMPAT
item.immersiveengineering.bullet.terrasteel.name=Zielsuchende Patrone
ie.manual.entry.bullets_terrasteel=§lHoming §lCartridges§r are created with a "Specialized Projectiles" blueprint. They are formed from the magical metal "Terrasteel", which gives them the intrinsic ability to seek out and chase the closest target.
#BLOODMAGIC COMPAT
item.immersiveengineering.bullet.crystalwill.name=Kristalisierter Wille Patrone
ie.manual.entry.bullets_crystalwill=§lCrystalized §lWill §lCartridges§r are created with the "Specialized Projectiles" blueprint and using pieces of Demon Will Crystal. The small quantities of demonic will contained within force the projectiles to seek out nearby targets and chase them relentlessly.

#DESCRIPTIONS
entity.Villager.immersiveengineering.engineer=Statiker
entity.Villager.immersiveengineering.machinist=Maschinist
entity.Villager.immersiveengineering.electrician=Elektriker
entity.Villager.immersiveengineering.outfitter=Ausstatter

key.immersiveengineering.magnetEquip=Magnetischer Schild Handschuh (Doppelklick)
key.immersiveengineering.chemthrowerSwitch=Chemische Tanks wechseln

desc.immersiveengineering.info.attachedTo=Verbindet von %1$s, %2$s, %3$s
desc.immersiveengineering.info.attachedToDim=Verbindet von %1$s, %2$s, %3$s in Dimension %4$s
desc.immersiveengineering.info.energyStored=Gespeicherte Energie: %1$s Flux
desc.immersiveengineering.info.energyStoredEU=Gespeicherte Energie: %1$s EU
desc.immersiveengineering.info.blastFuelTime=Brennstoff: %1$s Ticks
desc.immersiveengineering.info.gasStored=Gespeichertes Gas: %1$s
desc.immersiveengineering.info.colour=Farbe: %1$s
desc.immersiveengineering.info.day=%1$sd
desc.immersiveengineering.info.hour=%1$sh
desc.immersiveengineering.info.minute=%1$sm
desc.immersiveengineering.info.second=%1$ss
desc.immersiveengineering.info.potionMod=Trank hinzugefügt von %1$s

desc.immersiveengineering.info.multiblocksAllowed=Erlaubte Multiblöcke:
desc.immersiveengineering.info.multiblockForbidden=Verbotene Multiblöcke:

desc.immersiveengineering.info.colour.red=Rot: %1s
desc.immersiveengineering.info.colour.green=Grün: %1s
desc.immersiveengineering.info.colour.blue=Blau: %1s

desc.immersiveengineering.info.blockSide.facing=Zugewandte Seite
desc.immersiveengineering.info.blockSide.opposite=Gegenüberliegende Seite
desc.immersiveengineering.info.blockSide.down=Unterseite
desc.immersiveengineering.info.blockSide.up=Oberseite
desc.immersiveengineering.info.blockSide.north=Nördliche Seite
desc.immersiveengineering.info.blockSide.south=Südliche Seite
desc.immersiveengineering.info.blockSide.west=Westliche Seite
desc.immersiveengineering.info.blockSide.east=Östliche Seite
desc.immersiveengineering.info.blockSide.io.-1=Keine Verbindung
desc.immersiveengineering.info.blockSide.io.0=Einlass
desc.immersiveengineering.info.blockSide.io.1=Auslass
desc.immersiveengineering.info.blockSide.connectEnergy.NONE=Keine Verbindung
desc.immersiveengineering.info.blockSide.connectEnergy.INPUT=Energie Einlass
desc.immersiveengineering.info.blockSide.connectEnergy.OUTPUT=Energie Auslass
desc.immersiveengineering.info.blockSide.connectFluid.-1=Keine Verbindung
desc.immersiveengineering.info.blockSide.connectFluid.0=Flüssigkeitseinlass
desc.immersiveengineering.info.blockSide.connectFluid.1=Flüssigkeitsauslass

desc.immersiveengineering.info.filter.oreDict=Filter: OreDictionary<br>Filtert Gegenstände basierend auf<br>ihren OreDictionary Namen.
desc.immersiveengineering.info.filter.nbt=Filter: NBT Data<br>Filtert Gegenstände und<br>respektiert ihre NBT Daten.
desc.immersiveengineering.info.filter.fuzzy=Filter: Ungenau<br>Filtert Gegenstände und<br>Ignoriert ihre Haltbarkeit.

desc.immersiveengineering.info.oreDict.off=OreDictionary: Ausgeschaltet
desc.immersiveengineering.info.oreDict.on=OreDictionary: Eingeschaltet

desc.immersiveengineering.info.mininglvl.-1=Keins
desc.immersiveengineering.info.mininglvl.0=§7Stein
desc.immersiveengineering.info.mininglvl.1=§4Eisen
desc.immersiveengineering.info.mininglvl.2=§cRedstone
desc.immersiveengineering.info.mininglvl.3=§dObsidian
desc.immersiveengineering.info.mininglvl.4=§9Kobalt
desc.immersiveengineering.info.mininglvl.5=§5Manyullyn
desc.immersiveengineering.info.mininglvl.6=§5Manyullyn§d+

desc.immersiveengineering.info.durability=Haltbarkeit: %1$s

desc.immersiveengineering.info.holdShift=§6Halte Shift§r
desc.immersiveengineering.info.holdShiftForInfo=§8Halte Shift für zuätzliche Informationen§r

desc.immersiveengineering.info.mineral.Iron=Eisen
desc.immersiveengineering.info.mineral.Magnetite=Magnetit
desc.immersiveengineering.info.mineral.Pyrite=Pyrit
desc.immersiveengineering.info.mineral.Bauxite=Bauxit
desc.immersiveengineering.info.mineral.Copper=Kupfer
desc.immersiveengineering.info.mineral.Cassiterite=Cassiterit
desc.immersiveengineering.info.mineral.Gold=Gold
desc.immersiveengineering.info.mineral.Nickel=Nickel
desc.immersiveengineering.info.mineral.Platinum=Platinum
desc.immersiveengineering.info.mineral.Uranium=Uran
desc.immersiveengineering.info.mineral.Quartzite=Quarzit
desc.immersiveengineering.info.mineral.Galena=Galena
desc.immersiveengineering.info.mineral.Lead=Blei
desc.immersiveengineering.info.mineral.Silver=Silber
desc.immersiveengineering.info.mineral.Lapis=Lapislazuli
desc.immersiveengineering.info.mineral.Coal=Kohle
desc.immersiveengineering.info.mineral.Wolframite=Wolfram

chat.immersiveengineering.info.old_java=[Immersive Engineering] §4Warning: §rYour Java version is %1$s. This version causes crashes with the Engineer's manual. These crashes are close to impossible to fix for us. You can prevent the crashes by installing up-to-date Java (make sure to use Java 8, not Java 9) and forcing your launcher to use it.

chat.immersiveengineering.info.coresample.pos=%1$s bis %2$s
chat.immersiveengineering.info.coresample.mineral=%1$sader
chat.immersiveengineering.info.coresample.noMineral=Keine Mineralien
chat.immersiveengineering.info.coresample.yield=Erwarteter Ertrag: %1$s Erze
chat.immersiveengineering.info.coresample.infinite=Unbegrenzter Ertrag
chat.immersiveengineering.info.coresample.timestamp=Probe entnommen vor %1$s
chat.immersiveengineering.info.coresample.noTimestamp=Propbe entnommen zu einem unbestimmten Zeitpunkt
chat.immersiveengineering.info.coresample.timezone=Diese Probe wurde in einer andern Zeuitzone/Dimension entnommen
chat.immersiveengineering.info.coresample.mapFail=Diese Probe wurde außerhalb der Karte entnommen

desc.immersiveengineering.info.reqMaterial=Benötigte Materialien:
desc.immersiveengineering.info.chance=Chance:

desc.immersiveengineering.info.blueprint.creates0=Gebaute Gegenstände: §6Halte Shift§r
desc.immersiveengineering.info.blueprint.creates1=Gebaute Gegenstände:
desc.immersiveengineering.info.blueprint.components=Baukomponenten
desc.immersiveengineering.info.blueprint.molds=Metalpressenformen
desc.immersiveengineering.info.blueprint.bullet=Gewöhnliche Projektile
desc.immersiveengineering.info.blueprint.specialBullet=Spezialisierte Projektile
desc.immersiveengineering.info.blueprint.electrode=Lichtbogenelektroden

desc.immersiveengineering.info.electrodeIntegrity=Integrität

desc.immersiveengineering.info.bullet.flareColour=Brennfarbe: %1$s

desc.immersiveengineering.info.shader.applyTo=Kann angebracht werden an:
desc.immersiveengineering.info.shader.immersiveengineering:revolver=Revolver
desc.immersiveengineering.info.shader.immersiveengineering:chemthrower=Chemikalienwerfer
desc.immersiveengineering.info.shader.immersiveengineering:drill=Bergbaubohrer
desc.immersiveengineering.info.shader.immersiveengineering:railgun=Schienenkanone
desc.immersiveengineering.info.shader.immersiveengineering:shield=Schild
desc.immersiveengineering.info.shader.immersiveengineering:minecart=Lore
desc.immersiveengineering.info.shader.immersiveengineering:balloon=Balloon
desc.immersiveengineering.info.shader.immersiveengineering:banner=Banner
desc.immersiveengineering.info.shader.set=§lShader Set§r:
desc.immersiveengineering.info.shader.reference=§lPopkultur Referenz§r:
desc.immersiveengineering.info.shader.details=§lZusatzinfo§r:

desc.immersiveengineering.info.toolbox.food=Essen
desc.immersiveengineering.info.toolbox.tool=Werkzeuge
desc.immersiveengineering.info.toolbox.wire=Kabel
desc.immersiveengineering.info.toolbox.any=Alles

desc.immersiveengineering.info.fertFill=Düngermenge: %1$s
desc.immersiveengineering.info.fertMod=Wachstumsmodifikator: %1$s

desc.immersiveengineering.info.redstoneChannel=Kanal: %1$s
desc.immersiveengineering.info.redstoneChannel.send=Sendekanal: %1$s
desc.immersiveengineering.info.redstoneChannel.rec=Empfängerkanal: %1$s

desc.immersiveengineering.info.multiblock.IE:AlloySmelter=Legierungsofen
desc.immersiveengineering.info.multiblock.IE:ArcFurnace=Lichtbogenofen
desc.immersiveengineering.info.multiblock.IE:Assembler=Bauer
desc.immersiveengineering.info.multiblock.IE:AutoWorkbench=Automatische Ingenieuswerkbank
desc.immersiveengineering.info.multiblock.IE:BlastFurnace=Grober Hochofen
desc.immersiveengineering.info.multiblock.IE:BlastFurnaceAdvanced=Verbesserter Hochofen
desc.immersiveengineering.info.multiblock.IE:BottlingMachine=Abfüllmaschine
desc.immersiveengineering.info.multiblock.IE:BucketWheel=Schaufelrad
desc.immersiveengineering.info.multiblock.IE:CokeOven=Koksofen
desc.immersiveengineering.info.multiblock.IE:Crusher=Brecher
desc.immersiveengineering.info.multiblock.IE:DieselGenerator=Dieselgenerator
desc.immersiveengineering.info.multiblock.IE:Excavator=Bagger
desc.immersiveengineering.info.multiblock.IE:Fermenter=Fermentierer
desc.immersiveengineering.info.multiblock.IE:Lightningrod=Blitzableiter
desc.immersiveengineering.info.multiblock.IE:MetalPress=Metallpresse
desc.immersiveengineering.info.multiblock.IE:Mixer=Mixer
desc.immersiveengineering.info.multiblock.IE:Refinery=Raffinerie
desc.immersiveengineering.info.multiblock.IE:SheetmetalTank=Tank
desc.immersiveengineering.info.multiblock.IE:Silo=Silo
desc.immersiveengineering.info.multiblock.IE:Squeezer=Presse

desc.immersiveengineering.flavour.treated_wood.horizontal=Horizontal Planks
desc.immersiveengineering.flavour.treated_wood.vertical=Vertical Planks
desc.immersiveengineering.flavour.treated_wood.packaged=Packaged Planks
desc.immersiveengineering.flavour.treated_wood_slab.horizontal=Horizontal Planks
desc.immersiveengineering.flavour.treated_wood_slab.vertical=Vertical Planks
desc.immersiveengineering.flavour.treated_wood_slab.packaged=Packaged Planks
desc.immersiveengineering.flavour.treated_wood_stairs0=Horizontal Planks
desc.immersiveengineering.flavour.treated_wood_stairs1=Vertical Planks
desc.immersiveengineering.flavour.treated_wood_stairs2=Packaged Planks
desc.immersiveengineering.flavour.crate=Will keep its inventory when broken!
desc.immersiveengineering.flavour.barrel=Will keep its fluid when broken!
desc.immersiveengineering.flavour.barrelTemp=Cannot store hot fluids or gases
desc.immersiveengineering.flavour.coil.construction0=For decoration purposes only
desc.immersiveengineering.flavour.coil.construction1=Will not transmit power
desc.immersiveengineering.flavour.coil.redstone=Transmits redstone signals
desc.immersiveengineering.flavour.revolver=Go ahead, make my day!
desc.immersiveengineering.flavour.revolver.dev=Regicide!
desc.immersiveengineering.flavour.revolver.infinity=All you need is a little pinch of infinity
desc.immersiveengineering.flavour.revolver.tesla=A shocking invention!
desc.immersiveengineering.flavour.revolver.sns=Blood, Sweat, Steam and Steel
desc.immersiveengineering.flavour.revolver.nerf=Safe for kids
desc.immersiveengineering.flavour.revolver.oblivion=Passing Memories
desc.immersiveengineering.flavour.revolver.oathkeeper=Wayfinder
desc.immersiveengineering.flavour.revolver.bee=The Pain
desc.immersiveengineering.flavour.revolver.fenrir=There's nothing I don't cherish!
desc.immersiveengineering.flavour.revolver.earthshaker=Lingering Will
desc.immersiveengineering.flavour.revolver.warlord=Don't take my toys away!
desc.immersiveengineering.flavour.revolver.superchief=CHOO CHOO!
desc.immersiveengineering.flavour.revolver.rommie=Targeting AI 'Rommie' included!
desc.immersiveengineering.flavour.revolver.rose=Appearances can be deceiving
desc.immersiveengineering.flavour.revolver.noName=Peering Into Darkness
desc.immersiveengineering.flavour.revolver.patreonBlu=Hunter's Choice
desc.immersiveengineering.flavour.revolver.patreonHazard=Exclusive DLC Content

desc.immersiveengineering.flavour.drill.noHead=Kein Bohrkopf ausgerüstet
desc.immersiveengineering.flavour.drill.headDamage=Bohrkopfstatus:
desc.immersiveengineering.flavour.drill.fuel=Treibstoff:
desc.immersiveengineering.flavour.drill.empty=Leer

desc.immersiveengineering.flavour.drillhead.size=Bohrbereich: %1$sx%1$sx%2$s
desc.immersiveengineering.flavour.drillhead.level=Bohrlevel: %1$s
desc.immersiveengineering.flavour.drillhead.speed=Bohrgeschwindigkeit: %1$s
desc.immersiveengineering.flavour.drillhead.damage=Angriffsschaden: %1$s

desc.immersiveengineering.flavour.skyhook=Eine neue Art des Reisens
desc.immersiveengineering.flavour.skyhook.speedLimit=Begrenzte Geschwindigkeit
desc.immersiveengineering.flavour.skyhook.noLimit=Unbegrenzte Geschwindigkeit

desc.immersiveengineering.flavour.toolupgrade.drill_waterproof=Allows the Mining Drill to operate under water
desc.immersiveengineering.flavour.toolupgrade.drill_lube=Reduces the damage the Mining Drill's head sustains
desc.immersiveengineering.flavour.toolupgrade.drill_damage=Increases the attack damage and digging speed of the Mining Drill, stacks up to 3
desc.immersiveengineering.flavour.toolupgrade.drill_capacity=Increases the internal tank size of the Mining Drill and Chemical Thrower
desc.immersiveengineering.flavour.toolupgrade.revolver_bayonet=Adds melee damage to the Revolver
desc.immersiveengineering.flavour.toolupgrade.revolver_magazine=Increases the Revolver's magazine size
desc.immersiveengineering.flavour.toolupgrade.revolver_electro=Revolver shots inflict shock damage
desc.immersiveengineering.flavour.toolupgrade.chemthrower_focus=Decreases spread and increases range of the Chemical Thrower
desc.immersiveengineering.flavour.toolupgrade.railgun_scope=Allows Railgun to zoom in
desc.immersiveengineering.flavour.toolupgrade.railgun_capacitors=Reduces charge time of the Railgun
desc.immersiveengineering.flavour.toolupgrade.shield_flash=Produces a blinding flash
desc.immersiveengineering.flavour.toolupgrade.shield_shock=Shocks attackers and vapourizes projectiles
desc.immersiveengineering.flavour.toolupgrade.shield_magnet=Equips the shield at the press of a button
desc.immersiveengineering.flavour.toolupgrade.chemthrower_multitank=Allows multiple Fluids in the Chemical Thrower

gui.immersiveengineering.empty=Leer
gui.immersiveengineering.blastFurnace=Hochofen
gui.immersiveengineering.blastFurnace.fuel=Hochofenbrennstoff
gui.immersiveengineering.assembler.nospace=Alle Vorlagenplätze belegt!

gui.immersiveengineering.config.earmuffs.soundcategory.music=Musik
gui.immersiveengineering.config.earmuffs.soundcategory.record=Schallpatten
gui.immersiveengineering.config.earmuffs.soundcategory.weather=Wetter
gui.immersiveengineering.config.earmuffs.soundcategory.block=Blöcke
gui.immersiveengineering.config.earmuffs.soundcategory.hostile=Monster
gui.immersiveengineering.config.earmuffs.soundcategory.neutral=Freundliche
gui.immersiveengineering.config.earmuffs.soundcategory.player=Spieler
gui.immersiveengineering.config.earmuffs.soundcategory.ambient=Umgebung
gui.immersiveengineering.config.earmuffs.noisegate=Geräuschblocker

gui.immersiveengineering.config.turret.add=hinzufügen
gui.immersiveengineering.config.turret.blacklist=Blacklist
gui.immersiveengineering.config.turret.animals=Tiere
gui.immersiveengineering.config.turret.players=Spieler
gui.immersiveengineering.config.turret.neutrals=Neutrale
gui.immersiveengineering.config.turret.ignite_fluid=Flüssigkeit anzünden
gui.immersiveengineering.config.turret.expel_casings_on=Hülsen auswerfen
gui.immersiveengineering.config.turret.expel_casings_off=Hülsen behalten

gui.immersiveengineering.config.mixer.outputSingle=Output only bottom fluid
gui.immersiveengineering.config.mixer.outputAll=Output all fluids

gui.immersiveengineering.config.assembler.clearRecipe=Clear Recipe
gui.immersiveengineering.config.assembler.recursiveIngredients=Recursive use of ingredients
gui.immersiveengineering.config.assembler.nonRecursiveIngredients=Non-Recursive use of ingredients

gui.immersiveengineering.config.arcfurnace.distribute=Distribute Inputs

#CHAT
chat.immersiveengineering.warning.wrongCable=You cannot attach this wire here
chat.immersiveengineering.warning.wrongDimension=You are in the wrong dimension
chat.immersiveengineering.warning.sameConnection=You cannot attach a wire to the same point
chat.immersiveengineering.warning.tooFar=You are too far away from the previous connection
chat.immersiveengineering.warning.cantSee=The connection is obstructed
chat.immersiveengineering.warning.connectionExists=The connection exists already
chat.immersiveengineering.warning.invalidPoint=One of the connection points is invalid
chat.immersiveengineering.info.skyhookLimited=The skyhook will automatically limit its speed
chat.immersiveengineering.info.skyhookUnlimited=The speed of the skyhook is unlimited
chat.immersiveengineering.info.averageLoss=Average loss between points: %1$s%%
chat.immersiveengineering.info.energyStorage=Energy Stored: %1$s/%2$s Flux
chat.immersiveengineering.info.tooHot=This fluid is too hot for the container!
chat.immersiveengineering.info.noGasAllowed=This container can't store gasses!
chat.immersiveengineering.info.rsSignal.invertedOn=Redstone signal: Inverted
chat.immersiveengineering.info.rsSignal.invertedOff=Redstone signal: Not inverted
chat.immersiveengineering.info.rsControl.invertedOn=Redstone control: Inverted
chat.immersiveengineering.info.rsControl.invertedOff=Redstone control: Not inverted
chat.immersiveengineering.info.rsControl.strongSignal.true=Strong Redstone Signal: Enabled
chat.immersiveengineering.info.rsControl.strongSignal.false=Strong Redstone Signal: Disabled
chat.immersiveengineering.info.tesla.highPower=Power mode: High
chat.immersiveengineering.info.tesla.lowPower=Power mode: Low
chat.immersiveengineering.info.notOwner=Only the owner '%1$s' may access this block
chat.immersiveengineering.info.tickrate=This block will activate every %1$s ticks

chat.immersiveengineering.info.coreDrill.progress=Core Sample in progress: %1$s
chat.immersiveengineering.info.coreDrill.result.mineral=§7Core Sample evaluated, %1$s§7 vein found
chat.immersiveengineering.info.coreDrill.result.depl=§7Mineral vein at %1$s§7 integrity
chat.immersiveengineering.info.coreDrill.result.none=Core Sample evaluated, no minerals found
chat.immersiveengineering.info.coreDrill.infinite=Infinite

chat.immersiveengineering.info.pump.placeCobble.true=This pump will now replace fluids with cobblestone.
chat.immersiveengineering.info.pump.placeCobble.false=This pump will no longer replace fluid blocks with cobblestone. §6WARNING:§f This can cause lag and is not adviseable when dealing with large amounts of fluid!
chat.immersiveengineering.info.energyTransfered=Average energy transferred over the last %1$s ticks: %2$s Flux/t

chat.immersiveengineering.command.available=§6Available commands:§r %1$s
chat.immersiveengineering.command.help.help=§6Usage: /ie help <command> [sub-commands ...]§r<br> To get more info on the specified command or, optionally, its sub commands
chat.immersiveengineering.command.mineral.help=§6Usage: /ie mineral <list|get|set|setDepletion>§r
chat.immersiveengineering.command.mineral.list.help=§6Usage: /ie mineral list§r<br> Lists all registered Minerals
chat.immersiveengineering.command.mineral.get.help=§6Usage: /ie mineral get§r<br> Displays the mineral for the chunk
chat.immersiveengineering.command.mineral.set.help=§6Usage: /ie mineral set [mineral]§r<br> Sets a mineral override for the chunk. Specify no mineral to clear the override.
chat.immersiveengineering.command.mineral.setDepletion.help=§6Usage: /ie mineral setDepletion <number>§r<br> Set the depletion of the minerals inside the chunk. Set this to -1 to make the vein infinite.
chat.immersiveengineering.command.mineral.get=Chunk contains: %1$s, Override: %2$s, Depletion: %3$s
chat.immersiveengineering.command.mineral.set.invalidMineral=§cInvalid Mineral, '%1$s' is not a valid identifier. Use '/ie mineral list' for a list of all identifiers.§r
chat.immersiveengineering.command.mineral.set.sucess=Mineral override set to '%1$s'
chat.immersiveengineering.command.mineral.set.clear=Mineral override (%1$s) cleared.
chat.immersiveengineering.command.mineral.setDepletion.NFE=Error, '%1$s' is not a valid number
chat.immersiveengineering.command.mineral.setDepletion.sucess=Mineral depletion set to '%1$s'
chat.immersiveengineering.command.shaders.help=§6Usage: /ie shaders <clear>§r
chat.immersiveengineering.command.shaders.clear.help=§6Usage: /ie shaders clear [player]§r<br> Clear the received shaders for the given player. Clear for yourself if no player is specified.
chat.immersiveengineering.command.shaders.clear.sucess=Received Shaders for '%1$s' were cleared

#SUBTITLES
subtitle.immersiveengineering.dieselGenerator=Diesel Generator is being loud and obnoxious
subtitle.immersiveengineering.crusher=Crusher is decimating ore
subtitle.immersiveengineering.metalPressPiston=Metal Press Piston
subtitle.immersiveengineering.metalPressSmash=Metal Press Clunk
subtitle.immersiveengineering.birthdayParty=Yaaay, party!
subtitle.immersiveengineering.revolverFire=Gunshot
subtitle.immersiveengineering.revolverReload=Reload
subtitle.immersiveengineering.spray=Flüssigkeits spray
subtitle.immersiveengineering.sprayFire=Flaming fluid spray
subtitle.immersiveengineering.chargeFast=Charging Kondensatoren
subtitle.immersiveengineering.chargeSlow=Charging Kondensatoren
subtitle.immersiveengineering.spark=Electrical sparks
subtitle.immersiveengineering.railgunFire=Railgun fire
subtitle.immersiveengineering.tesla=Teslaspule zapping
subtitle.immersiveengineering.direSwitch=Direwolf20 imitating a knifeswitch
subtitle.immersiveengineering.skyhook=Skyhook slides along a wire

#RECIPES
recipe.immersiveengineering.hammerCrushing=Crushing

#DEATH
death.attack.ieRevolver_casull=%1$s was shot by %2$s
death.attack.ieRevolver_casull.item=%1$s was shot by %2$s using %3$s
death.attack.ieRevolver_casull.turret=%1$s was shot by a turret
death.attack.ieRevolver_armorPiercing=%1$s was shot by %2$s
death.attack.ieRevolver_armorPiercing.item=%1$s was shot by %2$s using %3$s
death.attack.ieRevolver_armorPiercing.turret=%1$s was shot by a turret
death.attack.ieRevolver_buckshot=%1$s was shotgunned by %2$s
death.attack.ieRevolver_buckshot.item=%1$s was shotgunned by %2$s using %3$s
death.attack.ieRevolver_buckshot.turret=%1$s was shotgunned by a turret
death.attack.ieRevolver_dragonsbreath=%1$s was incinerated by %2$s
death.attack.ieRevolver_dragonsbreath.item=%1$s was incinerated by %2$s using %3$s
death.attack.ieRevolver_dragonsbreath.turret=%1$s was incinerated by a turret
death.attack.ieRevolver_homing=%1$s was shot by %2$s's homing bullet
death.attack.ieRevolver_homing.item=%1$s was shot by %2$s's homing bullet fired from %3$s
death.attack.ieRevolver_homing.turret=%1$s was shot by a turret's homing bullet
death.attack.ieRevolver_wolfpack=%1$s was shredded by %2$s's Wolfpack Rounds
death.attack.ieRevolver_wolfpack.item=%1$s was shredded by %2$s's Wolfpack Rounds fired from %3$s
death.attack.ieRevolver_wolfpack.turret=%1$s was shredded by a turret's Wolfpack Rounds
death.attack.ieRevolver_silver=%1$s was purified by %2$s's silver bullet
death.attack.ieRevolver_silver.item=%1$s was purified by %2$s's silver bullet fired from %3$s
death.attack.ieRevolver_silver.turret=%1$s was purified by a turret's silver bullet
death.attack.ieRevolver_potion=%1$s was doused by %2$s's phial shot
death.attack.ieRevolver_potion.item=%1$s was doused by %2$s's phial shot fired from %3$s
death.attack.ieRevolver_potion.turret=%1$s was doused by a turret's phial shot

death.attack.ieCrushed=%1$s was crushed
death.attack.ieAcid=%1$s was dissolved in acid
death.attack.ieRazorWire=%1$s was diced by razorwire
death.attack.ieRazorShock=%1$s was electrocuted by razorwire
death.attack.ieTesla=%1$s was fried by a Teslaspule
death.attack.ieTeslaPrimary=%1$s touched the primary circuit of a running Teslaspule
death.attack.ieRailgun=%1$s was pierced by %2$s's Railgun
death.attack.ieWireShock=%1$s wasn't careful enough around live wiring

#ACHIEVEMENTS
advancement.immersiveengineering:root=Immersive Engineering
advancement.immersiveengineering:root.desc=RTFM!
advancement.immersiveengineering:openManual=RTFM
advancement.immersiveengineering:openManual.desc=Acquire the Engineer's Manual
advancement.immersiveengineering:craftHammer=HAMMAH!
advancement.immersiveengineering:craftHammer.desc=Craft an Engineer's Hammer
advancement.immersiveengineering:connectWire=Birds on a Wire
advancement.immersiveengineering:connectWire.desc=Attach a wire
advancement.immersiveengineering:blastfurnace=Really Hot Topic
advancement.immersiveengineering:blastfurnace.desc=Create a Hochofen
advancement.immersiveengineering:makeSteel=The Upgrade
advancement.immersiveengineering:makeSteel.desc=Create a Steelbarren

advancement.immersiveengineering:placeConveyor=Road to nowhere
advancement.immersiveengineering:placeConveyor.desc=Place a Fließband
advancement.immersiveengineering:placeWindmill=Windmill for the land
advancement.immersiveengineering:placeWindmill.desc=Place a Windmühle
advancement.immersiveengineering:craftHeater=Spread the warmth
advancement.immersiveengineering:craftHeater.desc=Craft an External Heater
advancement.immersiveengineering:craftPump=Under Pressure
advancement.immersiveengineering:craftPump.desc=Craft a Fluid Pump
advancement.immersiveengineering:placeFloodlight=Aziz! Light!
advancement.immersiveengineering:placeFloodlight.desc=Place a Floodlight
advancement.immersiveengineering:craftWorkbench=Time to Tinker
advancement.immersiveengineering:craftWorkbench.desc=Craft an Engineer's Workbench
advancement.immersiveengineering:craftRevolver=Make my day
advancement.immersiveengineering:craftRevolver.desc=Craft the Revolver
advancement.immersiveengineering:upgradeRevolver=Shalashaska
advancement.immersiveengineering:upgradeRevolver.desc=Apply the maximum Upgrades to the Revolver
advancement.immersiveengineering:craftWolfPack=Beauty in Destruction
advancement.immersiveengineering:craftWolfPack.desc=Craft a Wolfpack Cartridge
advancement.immersiveengineering:craftDrill=Power Pick
advancement.immersiveengineering:craftDrill.desc=Craft the Mining Drill
advancement.immersiveengineering:upgradeDrill=Big Daddy
advancement.immersiveengineering:upgradeDrill.desc=Apply the maximum Upgrades to the Mining Drill
advancement.immersiveengineering:craftSkyhook=Booker, catch!
advancement.immersiveengineering:craftSkyhook.desc=Craft the Engineer's Skyhook
advancement.immersiveengineering:skyhookPro=Skyline Master
advancement.immersiveengineering:skyhookPro.desc=Travel a total of 1km with the Skyhook
advancement.immersiveengineering:craftChemthrower=Spray and Pray
advancement.immersiveengineering:craftChemthrower.desc=Craft the Chemical Thrower
advancement.immersiveengineering:craftRailgun=Fortune's Legacy
advancement.immersiveengineering:craftRailgun.desc=Craft the Railgun

advancement.immersiveengineering:mbImprovedBlastFurnace=Next Level Blasting
advancement.immersiveengineering:mbImprovedBlastFurnace.desc=Form the Improved Hochofen
advancement.immersiveengineering:mbMetalPress=Pressing matters
advancement.immersiveengineering:mbMetalPress.desc=Form the Metal Press
advancement.immersiveengineering:mbSilo=Sheetmetal Stash
advancement.immersiveengineering:mbSilo.desc=Form the Silo Multiblock
advancement.immersiveengineering:mbCrusher=Hazardous Machinery
advancement.immersiveengineering:mbCrusher.desc=Form the Crusher Multiblock
advancement.immersiveengineering:mbDieselGen=Bad for the Environment
advancement.immersiveengineering:mbDieselGen.desc=Form the Diesel Generator Multiblock
advancement.immersiveengineering:mbExcavator=Diggy Diggy Hole
advancement.immersiveengineering:mbExcavator.desc=Form the Excavator Multiblock
advancement.immersiveengineering:mbArcFurnace=The Hottest Topic
advancement.immersiveengineering:mbArcFurnace.desc=Form the Arc Furnace Multiblock

advancement.immersiveengineering:secret_birthdayParty=Grunt Birthday Party
advancement.immersiveengineering:secret_birthdayParty.desc=Light a match...
advancement.immersiveengineering:secret_luckOfTheDraw=Luck of the Draw
advancement.immersiveengineering:secret_luckOfTheDraw.desc=All or nothing
advancement.immersiveengineering:secret_drillbreak=GIGA...DRILL...BREAKER!!!
advancement.immersiveengineering:secret_drillbreak.desc=JUST WHO THE HELL DO YOU THINK I AM?!



stat.skyhookOneCm=Distanz per Lufthaken

immersiveengineering.potion.flammable=Brennbar
immersiveengineering.potion.slippery=Glitschig
immersiveengineering.potion.conductive=Leitend
immersiveengineering.potion.sticky=Klebrig
immersiveengineering.potion.stunned=Geschockt
immersiveengineering.potion.concreteFeet=Betonfüße
immersiveengineering.potion.flashed=Geblendet

#MANUAL
ie.manual.currentVersion= - CURRENT
ie.manual.newerVersion= - NEW
#ie.manual.entry.name=
#ie.manual.entry.subtext=
#ie.manual.entry.=


ie.manual.category.update.name=UPDATE NEWS!
ie.manual.entry.updateNews_0.name=What's new in v0.6.0
ie.manual.entry.updateNews_0.subtext=Old, new; borrowed and Blu
ie.manual.entry.updateNews_00=Dear Engineer!<br><br>Since you last worked with Immersive Engineering, many things have changed! Among the new things are: Villager houses, <link;lighting;§o§nnew §o§nlights§r>, <link;barrel;§o§nwooden §o§nbarrels§r>, <link;tanksilo;§o§ntanks§r>, <link;tanksilo;§o§nsilos§r;1> and <link;fluidPipes;§o§nfluid §o§npipes§r>, achievements, <link;shader;§o§nshaders§r> and the <link;assembler;§o§nAssembler§r> and <link;bottlingMachine;§o§nBottling §o§nMachine§r>!
ie.manual.entry.updateNews_01=Most importantly however, the way energy transmission is handled has changed a lot. In order to avoid mistakes, please make sure to read the entry on <link;wiring;§o§nWiring§r>, especially page 5, detailing the new distinction between a wire's transfer rate and a connector's in- and output.

ie.manual.entry.updateNews_1.name=What's new in v0.6.1
ie.manual.entry.updateNews_1.subtext=Old, new; borrowed and Blu
ie.manual.entry.updateNews_10=Dear Engineer!<br><br>The past update has brought some new features and changes to Immersive Engineering:<br><br><link;metalbarrel;§o§nMetal §o§nBarrels§r> offer a more stable, yet portable fluid storage solution, the Arc Furnace has been improved to alloy certain metals, as well as recycle old tools and armor, and the scaffolding used to cover a <link;fluidPipes;§o§nFluid §o§nPipe§r> can now be climbed.

ie.manual.entry.updateNews_2.name=What's new in v0.6.2
ie.manual.entry.updateNews_2.subtext=Old, new; borrowed and Blu
ie.manual.entry.updateNews_20=Dear Engineer!<br><br>The past update has brought some new features and changes to Immersive Engineering:<br><br>A new variation of scaffolding was invented, that replaces the unsafe, open steel struts on the top with some wooden planks. Aluminium has turned out to be quite useful for decorative purposes, as such, fences and scaffolding have now been made available in your local Engineer's shop.
ie.manual.entry.updateNews_21=A new kind of <link;breaker;§o§nbreakerswitch§r;2> was invented to be controlled with redstone signals and accept HV lines. Subsequently, HV lines are now forbidden from being attached to normal breakers, due to lifethreatening voltages. We don't want trouble with the union.

ie.manual.entry.updateNews_3.name=What's new in v0.6.3
ie.manual.entry.updateNews_3.subtext=Old, new; borrowed and Blu
ie.manual.entry.updateNews_30=Dear Engineer!<br><br>The past update has brought some new features and changes to Immersive Engineering:<br><br>After suffering a severe concussion, Chief Engineer Adams drafted plans for the <link;chemthrower;§o§nChemical §o§nThrower§r>, a device that allows you to spray any fluid anywhere. It also features a built-in pilot light to ignite the fluid spray. We think Adams might be insane.
ie.manual.entry.updateNews_31=Another new invention of the research department is the <link;chargingStation;§o§nCharging §o§nStation§r>, which allows you to insert energy into items and charge them up.<br>Assistant Engineer "Cobra" has presented his newest invention, the <link;conveyor;§o§nDropping §o§nConveyor§r;2>, which drops items passing over it into inventories below.<br>To top it all off the <link;sorter;§o§nItem §o§nRouter§r> has had its interface designed to allow for OreDictionary-, NBT-based and Fuzzy filtering of items!
ie.manual.entry.updateNews_32=Other noteable additions all around the topic of transport and decoration include:<br>- <link;shader;§o§nShaders§r> can be applied to Minecarts<br>- <link;skyhook;§o§nThe §o§nEngineer's §o§nSkyhook§r>, a tool to allow you to zip along your powerlines and overtake those Minecarts<br>- <link;balloon;§o§nBalloons§r>, as a convenient way to suspend connectors in the air and form the skylines for the afore mentioned hook<br>- <link;concrete;§o§nConcrete§r> that will make for a hard landing when you fall off the skyline
ie.manual.entry.updateNews_33=Finally, the financial department has been hassling us for not keeping track of our power usage. After a heated argument, the have presented us with the blueprints for the <link;eMeter;§o§nCurrent §o§nTransformer§r>, a device that can measure the energy flowing through it. Needless to say they are even less happy now that they know how much energy an Arc Furnace really consumes.

ie.manual.entry.updateNews_4.name=What's new in v0.6.4
ie.manual.entry.updateNews_4.subtext=Old, new; borrowed and Blu
ie.manual.entry.updateNews_40=Dear Engineer!<br><br>The past update has brought only little changes.<br>The energy transmission is fixed again, the engineer it that broke has been dunked into cold water as punishment.<br>The <link;furnaceHeater;§o§nFurnace §o§nHeater§r> has seen some improvements that now allow it to heat up Alchemical Furnaces from Thaumcraft or Evaporators from Cutting Edge.<br><br>That's all for now, let's hope it stays sufficiently stable.

ie.manual.category.general.name=Overview and Resources
ie.manual.category.construction.name=Construction
ie.manual.category.energy.name=Power, wires, generators
ie.manual.category.tools.name=Tools
ie.manual.category.machines.name=Simple Machines
ie.manual.category.heavymachines.name=Heavy Machinery

ie.manual.entry.introduction.name=Introduction
ie.manual.entry.introduction.subtext=Getting into Engineering
ie.manual.entry.introduction0=Greetings, fellow engineer, and welcome to Immersive Engineering. This journal shall serve as your guide for setting up all the new machines and functions this mod has to offer.<br>Let's start with the basics first: Immersive Engineering is built around the concept of retrofuturistic generation and transfer of energy. The energy used in this mod is Redstone Flux, a trait shared with many other mods currently available.
ie.manual.entry.introduction1=Energy is transmitted between §lconnectors§r by the use of §lwires§r. Wires can only bridge a limited distance of blocks, so you will need to use more connectors as §lrelays§r between the wires.<br>You have the choice between three different types of wire, which differ in transferrates, <config;iA;wireTransferRate;l3> Flux/tick. To switch between different types of wire, you will need to use §ltransformers§r.
ie.manual.entry.introductionHammer=The Engineer's Hammer is the most important tool at your disposal. It will be used to form multiblocks like the Coke Oven and Blast Furnace<config;b;crushingOreRecipe;, crushing ores into dust ; >or configuring blocks like Wooden Posts.

ie.manual.entry.ores.name=Ores
ie.manual.entry.ores.subtext=Diggy diggy hole
ie.manual.entry.oresCopper=§lCopper Ore§r is found in the world between layers <config;iA;ore_copper;1> and <config;iA;ore_copper;2>, and requires a Stone Pickaxe to harvest.<br><br>The ore will smelt into copper ingots, which are used in crafting basic copper wires, coils, and other integral parts of the IE architecture.
ie.manual.entry.oresBauxite=§lBauxite Ore§r is found in the world between layers <config;iA;ore_bauxite;1> and <config;iA;ore_bauxite;2>, and requires a Stone Pickaxe to harvest.<br><br>The ore will smelt into aluminium ingots, which, together with steel, are used to create high-voltage wires.
ie.manual.entry.oresLead=§lLead Ore§r is found in the world between layers <config;iA;ore_lead;1> and <config;iA;ore_lead;2>, and requires an Iron Pickaxe to harvest.<br><br>The ore will smelt into lead ingots, which are used in creating capacitors.
ie.manual.entry.oresSilver=§lSilver Ore§r is found in the world between layers <config;iA;ore_silver;1> and <config;iA;ore_silver;2>, and requires an Iron Pickaxe to harvest.<br><br>The ore will smelt into silver ingots, which alloy with gold to create electrum, a far more effective conductor.
ie.manual.entry.oresNickel=§lNickel Ore§r is found in the world between layers <config;iA;ore_nickel;1> and <config;iA;ore_nickel;2>, and requires an Iron Pickaxe to harvest.<br><br>The ore will smelt into nickel ingots, which alloy with copper to create constantan, a heat resistant conductor used in the creation of <link;generator;§o§nThermoelectric §o§nGenerators§r;1>.
ie.manual.entry.oresUranium=§lUranium Ore§r is found in the world between layers <config;iA;ore_uranium;1> and <config;iA;ore_uranium;2>, and requires an Iron Pickaxe to harvest.<br><br>The ore will smelt into uranium ingots, but there are currently not many uses for the metal. A uranium block can serve as a heatsource for the <link;generator;§o§nThermoelectric §o§nGenerator§r;1> and the metal will be used in future endeavours.

ie.manual.entry.oreProcessing.name=Ore Processing
ie.manual.entry.oreProcessing.subtext=Crush crush crush
ie.manual.entry.oreProcessing0=Crafting ores with an Engineer's Hammer allows you to crush them into dusts. This dust can be smelted into ingots, but more importantly, is used to <link;alloys;§o§ncreate §o§nmetallic §o§nalloys§r>.

ie.manual.entry.alloys.name=Alloys
ie.manual.entry.alloys.subtext=Mixed Metal Arts
ie.manual.entry.alloys0=Mixing dusts creates an alloy blend that can then be smelted into alloyed ingots. Constantan has thermo-electric properties and is used in creating the <link;generator;§o§nthermoelectric §o§ngenerator§r;1> and electrum is an excellent electric conductor used in <link;wiring;§o§nmedium-voltage §o§narchitecture§r>.

ie.manual.entry.plates.name=Metal Plates
ie.manual.entry.plates.subtext=Flat as a flounder
ie.manual.entry.plates0=Metal Plates are a crafting material required for the creation of some machines or blocks. They are made by hammering an ingot with an Engineer's Hammer or in a <link;metalPress;§o§nMetal §o§nPress§r>.

ie.manual.entry.components.name=Crafting Components
ie.manual.entry.components.subtext=Integral Pieces
ie.manual.entry.components0=Many machines and tools are constructed from various sub-components. Some of these you will have to use on a regular basis, which is why they have their own entry in this manual. The §6Iron§r and §6Steel Mechanical Components§r are integral to the majority of Multiblocks and machinery.
ie.manual.entry.components1=As you will find yourself creating these components more frequently, it may be advisable to draft a <link;blueprints;§o§nBlueprint§r> for them. Using this blueprint in an <link;workbench;§o§nEngineer's §o§nWorkbench§r> will allow you to construct the components at a reduced cost.<br>The workbench recipes are found on the following page.
ie.manual.entry.components2=Another, albeit less frequently used component are §6Vacuum Tubes§r. These glass tubes are used as elements in electronic machinery and used in <link;lighting;§o§nlight emitting devices§r>.
ie.manual.entry.components3=A rarely used, but crucial component in advanced machinery that requires precise calculation is the §6Circuit Board§r. They are impractically large and clunky, but can perform basic mathematic operations in under a second!

ie.manual.entry.hemp.name=Industrial Hemp
ie.manual.entry.hemp.subtext=530 fabric it
ie.manual.entry.hemp0=Industrial Hemp is a remarkable plant! Not only are its seeds useful for the the creation of <link;refinery;§o§nBiodiesel§r>, the hemp fibers are also useful for the creation of Tough Fabric. The seeds can be gathered by breaking tall grass.
ie.manual.entry.hemp1=Tough Fabric is a resilient weave made from hemp fiber. It's used to create <link;generator;§o§nImproved §o§nWindmills§r;3> as well as <link;balloon;§o§nBalloons§r> and §o§nJump §o§nCushions§r (detailed on the next page).
ie.manual.entry.hemp2=Jump Cushions are simple blocks created from tough fabric and inflated with air. They are capable of absorbing impacts and prevent falldamage when landed upon, but, unlike slime blocks, will not bounce you back up.
ie.manual.entry.hemp3=Strip Curtains are pieces of fabric that are mounted to doorframes or other openings to serve in blocking the view.<br>When an entity passes through them, they will emit a redstone signal. Rightclick them with the hammer to enable strong signals.<br>They can be dyed in the same way leather armor can.

ie.manual.entry.cokeoven.name=Coke Oven
ie.manual.entry.cokeoven.subtext=Hot topic!
ie.manual.entry.cokeoven0=The Coke Oven is the first important machine you will need to create in order to proceed with Immersive Engineering. Its functionality is simple, it will heat up coal or blocks of coal without supplying it with oxygen, creating Coal Coke, a carbon rich fuel. More importantly, this process creates §lCreosote Oil§r, which is used as a <link;treatedwood;§o§npreservative §o§nfor §o§nwood§r>. Similarly you can also burn wooden logs into charcoal with this oven, albeit with a smaller yield of creosote.
ie.manual.entry.cokeovenBlock=To form a Coke Oven, arrange 27 of these blocks in a 3x3x3 cube, and rightclick one of the sides' center blocks with an Engineer's Hammer.<br>See the following page for a diagram.

ie.manual.entry.alloysmelter.name=Alloy Kiln
ie.manual.entry.alloysmelter.subtext=Mixin' Metals
ie.manual.entry.alloysmelter0=The Alloy Kiln is a simple furnace made out of heat resistant sandstone and bricks. Within it, temperatures are high enough to allow metals to be melted into a fluid state and mixed, creating an <link;alloys;§o§nalloy§r>.<br>This allows the creation of important alloys like Electrum and Constantan without requiring the tedious mixing of dusts.
ie.manual.entry.alloysmelter1=To form the Kiln, arrange 8 of the Kiln Bricks in a 2x2x2 cube, as shown above, and rightclick one of the sides' blocks with an Engineer's Hammer.

ie.manual.entry.treatedwood.name=Treated Wood
ie.manual.entry.treatedwood.subtext=Highly Durable
ie.manual.entry.treatedwood0=Treated Wood is, quite simply, wooden planks covered in creosote oil. It is however, one of the most important materials you will be using in Immersive Engineering, so you'd better be prepared to create a lot of it.
ie.manual.entry.treatedwoodPost0=Posts made from treated wood make for excellent attachment points for your Wire Connectors. They are 4 blocks high, so you won't be able to place them without the proper clearance.<br>Using the hammer on the sides of the topmost block will attach an arm to the post.
ie.manual.entry.treatedwoodPost1=You can also place <link;wiring;§o§ntransformers§r;8> on the pole, which makes it less obtrusive.<br>Placing blocks below the arms of the wooden post will flip the arms upside down.

ie.manual.entry.concrete.name=Beton
ie.manual.entry.concrete.subtext=Fortress Material
ie.manual.entry.concrete0=Concrete is a very hard and resistant composite material. It's cheap to craft and makes for an excellent use for the excess slag produced by the <link;blastfurnace;§n§oBlast §n§oFurnace§r>.

ie.manual.entry.balloon.name=Balloon
ie.manual.entry.balloon.subtext=...just make 99 of them
ie.manual.entry.balloon0=Balloons are sacks of fabric with a heatsource below to keep them afloat. They will also emit light, but despite the torch, they are not a fire hazard.<br>Balloons can be placed like normal blocks, or, when no block is targeted, they will be placed in the air infront of you.
ie.manual.entry.balloon1=Similar to <link;metalconstruction;§o§nStructural §o§nConnectors§r;5>, you can attach Hemp Rope and Steel Wire to the balloon.<br>Sneak-clicking allows you to set a height offset for the balloon, allowing you to place it up to 5 blocks above the target.<br>You can also use dyes on a placed balloon; which part you dye depends on where you target it.<br>Rightclicking with an Engineer's Hammer will toggle the balloon's design between horizontal or vertical stripes.

ie.manual.entry.crate.name=Wooden Storage Crate
ie.manual.entry.crate.subtext=Move that gear up!
ie.manual.entry.crate0=Wooden storage crates are blocks quite similar to a chest. Crafted with treated wood, they offer 27 slots of storage, however, when broken, they will keep that storage, allowing you to move them together with their contents.<br>Like chests, they will output a comparator signal based on the amount of items stored.
ie.manual.entry.crate1=The reinforced storage crate offers the same capacity as a normal crate, but unlike them, these creates are impervious to explosions. No longer will pesky creepers or ill-placed mining charges destroy your valueables!<br>The upgrade recipe will keep the contents of the crate.

ie.manual.entry.barrel.name=Wooden Barrel
ie.manual.entry.barrel.subtext=Doesn't roll
ie.manual.entry.barrel0=Wooden barrels are simple containers that can store fluid. They will store up to 12 buckets, but because they are wooden, they can't store any gasses or hot fluids.<br>Rightclicking the top or bottom side of the barrel with a Hammer will switch between in-, output or no connection.

ie.manual.entry.jerrycan.name=Jerrycan
ie.manual.entry.jerrycan.subtext=Better than buckets
ie.manual.entry.jerrycan0=Jerrycans are simple metal containers used to carry fluids. They can store up to 10 buckets and can pour that fluid into the world as well as into machines. They can not pick up fluids. Additionally, they can be used to refill other fluid-consuming items like the <link;drill;§o§nMining §o§nDrill§r> by crafting them together.

ie.manual.entry.earmuffs.name=Ear Defenders
ie.manual.entry.earmuffs.subtext=LOUD NOISES!
ie.manual.entry.earmuffs0=Ear Defenders are devices for protecting your hearing. They are quite important for engineers that work in close proximity to <link;dieselgen;§o§nDiesel §o§nGenerators§r;> or other loud machinery.<br>While wearing Ear Defenders, all noises are reduced by 90%%.
ie.manual.entry.earmuffs1=Placing the Ear Defenders in the <link;workbench;§o§nEngineer's §o§nWorkbench§r;> allows you to specify which types of noises you want cancelled and by how much their volume should be reduced.<br>You can dye them like you would leather armor.<br>Crafting them with any other helmet will attach the defenders to that piece of equipment, crafting the helmet alone will remove the defenders again, to allow further customizing.

ie.manual.entry.shield.name=Heavy Plated Shield
ie.manual.entry.shield.subtext=One Man Phalanx
ie.manual.entry.shield0=The Heavy Plated Shield is a direct upgrade to the normal wooden shields you might be acquainted with. In similar fashion, this shield will block most incoming damage from the front, but its durability has been increased considerably, and it sports the ability to be upgraded.
ie.manual.entry.shield1=The §6Flashbulb§r upgrade adds a bright lightbulb and reflector screen to the shield. Upon being attacked, the device will produce a bright, blinding flash, disorienting everyone in front of the user.
ie.manual.entry.shield2=Adding §6Shock Emitters§r to the shield allows you to retaliate against attacking enemies. When the shield is struck, it will emit a shock, inflicting minor damage to the aggressor. Additionally, it will vapourize projectiles rather than just stopping them.
ie.manual.entry.shield3=The §6Magnetic Glove§r serves as an easy way to access the shield when threatened. With this upgrade equipped, simply double-tapping the §l<keybind;key.immersiveengineering.magnetEquip>§r Key will have you retrieve the shield from your inventory and place it in your offhand slot.

ie.manual.entry.toolbox.name=Engineer's Toolbox
ie.manual.entry.toolbox.subtext=The Engineer's Handbag
ie.manual.entry.toolbox0=The toolbox is a simple, carried container, used to store all the essentials of an engineer! Hovering over the relevant slots tells you what they will accept.<br>'Food' and 'Anything' are quite self-explanatory, 'Wiring' slots are for coils, connectors and similar items, and 'Tools' will store any IE tool as well as picks, shovels and axes!
ie.manual.entry.toolbox1=Sneaking and right-clicking allows the toolbox to be placed as a block. While placed, it's inventory can still be accessed with a rightclick. Sneaking and right-clicking again will pick the toolbox up.

ie.manual.entry.graphite.name=Graphite
ie.manual.entry.graphite.subtext=Coal stuff
ie.manual.entry.graphite0=Highly Ordered Pyrolytic Graphite (HOP) is a complex, highly compressed, carbon material used in special engineering constructs.<br>HOP Graphite Dust is created by compressing eight pieces of Coke Dust in the <link;squeezer;§o§nIndustrial §o§nSqueezer§r>. That dust can then be smelted into an ingot.
ie.manual.entry.graphite1=The most common use for HOP Graphite is the creation of electrodes to be used in the <link;arcfurnace;§o§nArc §o§nFurnace§r>. These electrodes are created with an <link;blueprints;§o§nEngineer's §o§nBlueprint§r>, which you can<config;b;arcfurnace_electrodeCrafting; craft,> find in certain chests or trade with a villager. You can also create electrodes in the metal press, using the rod mold on 4 ingots, but the electrodes crafted this way have less durability.

ie.manual.entry.wiring.name=Basic Wiring
ie.manual.entry.wiring.subtext=Bzzzt!
ie.manual.entry.wiring0=The energy-net of Immersive Engineering has four important blocks: §lCapacitors§r to store energy, §lconnectors§r as inputs and outputs for the net, §lrelays§r to connect wires together and §ltransformers§r to switch between different levels of wire.
ie.manual.entry.wiring1=To connect two blocks, simply click the first one with a wire coil, then use the same coil on the second block. The total transfer rate between two points depends on the weakest type of wire between them.
ie.manual.entry.wiring2=Note that restrictions apply based on blocks: Connectors and relays will only take wires of the same type that is already connected, transformers will only take two wires of a different type,<br>[cont]
ie.manual.entry.wiring3=and wires can only connect to blocks that match the voltage.
ie.manual.entry.wiring4=There are two important values to note about wiring:<br>Each connector has an input value (§o<config;iA;wireConnectorInput>§r) and each wire has a maximum transfer rate (§o<config;iA;wireTransferRate;l3>§r).<br>The connector limits how much power can be in- and output, but multiple connectors can §ounify§r into a single wire, allowing you to combine the transfer over longer ranges. Note however that the §omaximum transfer rate of the wire must not be exceeded, or else the wire will §oburn up§r.
ie.manual.entry.wiring5=Wires will transfer energy even through §ounloaded chunks§r as long as the input and output chunks are loaded.<br>Uninsulated wires connected to an energy source will cause damage to players and mobs too close to them. Insulated wires are available for low and medium voltage.<br>Sneaking when using the "Pick Block" function on a connector will pick the connected wire from your inventory.<br>Wire connections will break if a block obstructing the wire is placed.
ie.manual.entry.wiringConnector=§lConnectors§r serve as in- and outputs to the IE Energy-Net. You can place them on capacitors or other Flux handlers and they will transfer power through connected wires. §lRelays§r will still accept wires but can't in- or output, they serve as connection points between wires.
ie.manual.entry.wiringCapacitor=§lCapacitors§r serve as energy storage units. You can use the hammer to adjust the configuration of each side, with blue designating an input, orange an output and no colour marking preventing any connection at all. Sneak while using the hammer to configure the side opposite of the one you clicked.
ie.manual.entry.wiringTransformer0=§lTransformers§r allow you to transition between different types of wire. The weakest wire restricts the transfer rate. Note that HV Transformers can step down to LV or MV, so you do not need to chain two transformers.
ie.manual.entry.wiringTransformer1=You can attach <link;wiring;§o§ntransformers §o§nto §o§nwooden §o§npoles§r;3> as shown on the second image on page 4, however only non-HV Transformers can be placed like this.
ie.manual.entry.wiringCutters=The §lWire Cutters§r are used to removed all the wires connected to a block by simply rightclicking it.
ie.manual.entry.wiringVoltmeter=The §lVoltmeter§r is used to measure connections. Aiming it at any energy storage or rightclicking it will read its current storage. Sneak+rightclick two connectors to calculate the average loss between them.
ie.manual.entry.wiringFeedthrough0=Feedthrough Insulators allow connecting wiring from one side of a wall to wiring on the other side without a hole. They can be created with any "normal" solid block in the middle. All common types of connectors (power and redstone) can be used to create feedthrough insulators for the
ie.manual.entry.wiringFeedthrough1=corresponding wire type. Right-click one of the connectors with a hammer to form the multiblock.

ie.manual.entry.generator.name=Power Generation
ie.manual.entry.generator.subtext=
ie.manual.entry.generator0=Transferring power is quite helpful provided you have power. To actually generate Flux, you can use the kinetic forces of windmills and waterwheels. Connecting these to a dynamo will generate power based on how fast they turn.
ie.manual.entry.generator1=The Water Wheel is a fairly easy way of powering a dynamo. It's turning speed is based on the water flowing around it, so for optimal results, you'll want to direct the water in a semi-circle from the top down one side and along the bottom. Up to three water wheels can be placed against each other.
ie.manual.entry.generator2=The Windmill is a free and easy way of generating power, albeit not a very powerful one. Its speed depends the space in front of it, with its kinetic output reducing greatly if the airflow is obscured. Additionally, weather conditions like rain or thunderstorms result in stronger winds and increased rotation speeds.
ie.manual.entry.generator3=Your wind-based power generation can be improved by covering the blades of your windmill in cloth. Doing so increases the surface area and with it the rotation speed and energy output.<br>The required sails are crafted from <link;hemp;§o§ntough §o§nhemp §o§nfabric§r;1> and applied to the windmill by rightclicking it in world.

ie.manual.entry.breaker.name=Breaker Switch
ie.manual.entry.breaker.subtext=Clap on - Clap off
ie.manual.entry.breaker0=Breaker Switches are simply switches that can stop the flow of power through wires. They can connect two wires of the same type and will only allow power to pass when activated. This can be used to separate power-hungry machinery from the network or hook up an additional set of generators when needed!
ie.manual.entry.breaker1=Due to the high risk, these switches will not accept HV wires.<br>They will also emit a redstone signal when they are switched on; this behaviour can be inverted by clicking the switch with an Engineer's Hammer.<br>Additionally they are an excellent way to control your <link;lighting;powered lights;1>!
ie.manual.entry.breaker2=The Redstone Breaker is similar to a normal breaker switch, but cannot be operated manually. Instead, it will require a redstone signal to break the connection. In return, this device is insulated well enough to allow the connection of HV wires as well!

ie.manual.entry.eMeter.name=Current Transformer
ie.manual.entry.eMeter.subtext=88 Flux per hour!
ie.manual.entry.eMeter0=The Current Transformer is a measurement device for electrical power. It can be hooked up in any powerline and will keep track of energy transferred through it, returning an average Flux/t upon rightclick.

ie.manual.entry.redstoneWires.name=Redstone Wires
ie.manual.entry.redstoneWires.subtext=Integration Takeover
ie.manual.entry.redstoneWires0=§6Redstone Wires§r are aluminium coated in redstone dust. The resulting cables provide an easy way to transfer redstone signals over long distance without losing any signal strength.
ie.manual.entry.redstoneWires1=The §6connectors§r work like any other wire connector in terms of connecting them, however, redstone wiring does not require relays; connectors and relays are the same block.<br>Using the Engineer's Hammer, the connectors can be switched between in- and output mode (rightclick) and configured between 16 coloured frequencies (sneak-rightclick).
ie.manual.entry.redstoneWires2=§6Redstone Probe Connectors§r have a functionality partially comparable to Redstone Comparators. While they are not able to actively compare signals, they are able to read inventories for how full they are.
ie.manual.entry.redstoneWires3=Additionally, these probes can operate on two channels, sending their read signal on one, and still receiving signals on another. These channels can be changed by using the Engineer's Hammer.<br><br>Note that many of IE's multiblocks feature comparator-functionality, as described on the following pages. Where available, the redstone control surface of the multiblock is the designated spot to connect a comparator.
ie.manual.entry.redstoneWires4=§lTank: §rAs detailed in its <link;tank;§o§nmanual §o§nentry§r;1><br>§lSilo: §rAs detailed in its <link;silo;§o§nmanual §o§nentry§r;2><br>§lAssembler: §rOutputs a signal relative to the fill of the inventory.<br>§lAutoWorkbench: §rOutputs a signal relative to the fill of the inventory.<br>§lSqueezer: §rOutputs a signal relative to the fill of the inventory.<br>§lFermenter: §rOutputs a signal relative to the fill of the inventory.
ie.manual.entry.redstoneWires5=§lExcavator: §rOutputs a signal relative to the remaining ore in the vein.<br>§lArcFurnace: §rOutputs a signal relative to the fill of the inventory.<br>Additionally, connecting a comparator to the electrodes at the top will send a signal based on their integrity.<br>§lMixer: §rOutputs a signal relative to the fill of the inventory.<br>

ie.manual.entry.thermoElectric.name=Thermoelectric Generator
ie.manual.entry.thermoElectric.subtext=Hot and Cold
ie.manual.entry.thermoElectric0=Thermoelectric Generators are another option of power generation and work without the use of any mechanical parts, instead they use the temperature gradients between two sources.
ie.manual.entry.thermoElectric1=Placing a hot fluid on one side and a colder fluid on the opposing side generates energy based on the difference between the two temperatures.<br>The list on the following page contains other, non-fluid blocks, which can be used as sources of temperature.

ie.manual.entry.blastfurnace.name=Crude Blast Furnace
ie.manual.entry.blastfurnace.subtext=Simple Steel
ie.manual.entry.blastfurnace0=The Crude Blast Furnace is used to increase the carbon contents in iron, turning it into steel. To achieve this, only pure, high-carbon fuels may be used for the furnace, specifically coal coke and charcoal.<br><br>Along with steel, the furnace will also create slag, which you must remove or the furnace will cease to function. While technically a waste product, you can use slag to create concrete.
ie.manual.entry.blastfurnaceBlock=To form a Blast Furnace, arrange 27 of these blocks in a 3x3x3 cube, and rightclick one of the sides' center blocks with an Engineer's Hammer.<br>See the following page for a diagram.
ie.manual.entry.blastfurnace1=The Crude Blast Furnace is not automateable. All in- and outputs must be arranged manually through its GUI. If you want to automate the creation of steel, you should probably look into creating an <link;improvedBlastfurnace;§o§nImproved §o§nBlast §o§nFurnace§r;>.

ie.manual.entry.improvedBlastfurnace.name=Improved Blast Furnace
ie.manual.entry.improvedBlastfurnace.subtext=Industrialized Refinement
ie.manual.entry.improvedBlastfurnace0=The Improved Blast Furnace is a much more professional way of <link;blastfurnace;§o§ncreating §o§nsteel§r;>. Not only does it allow the automation of in- and outputs, it can also be outfitted with preheaters to speed up the refinement process by addition of hot air.<br>The furnace is made from reinforced bricks, so you'd be advised to spend your first batches of steel on this upgrade.
ie.manual.entry.improvedBlastfurnace1=The structure of the Furnace is similar to its crude predecessor, but the bricks have been reinforced and a hopper was added at the top to funnel in the inputs.
ie.manual.entry.improvedBlastfurnace2=Steel is output at the front of the furnace, slag at the back, and the furnace will automatically output to connected inventories or conveyor belts. Iron and Coal Coke are fed in through the top.
ie.manual.entry.improvedBlastfurnace3=Blast Furnace Preheaters are used to heat up air and then blow it into the furnace to speed up the refinement process of iron. Each furnace can have up to two preheaters connected to the ports on the each side, and each preheater requires <config;i;preheater_consumption> Flux/t to operate.

ie.manual.entry.metalconstruction.name=Metal Constructions
ie.manual.entry.metalconstruction.subtext=Riveting
ie.manual.entry.metalconstruction0=Apart from Treated Wood, processed metals make for common construction blocks. You can craft almost any metal into blocks and slabs, or hammer iron ingots into a sheetmetal block.
ie.manual.entry.metalconstruction1=Steel is not only an integral part of high-voltage architectures, it is also quite useful in, well, architecture. Steel scaffolding can be used to quickly create climbable structures, steel fencing keeps baddies at bay and structural arms make for great attachment points for your HV relays.
ie.manual.entry.metalconstruction2=Structural Connectors work similarly to normal connectors, but instead of transferring energy, they are purely decorative.<br>They won't accept normal wires, but Hemp Rope and Steel Cable (see next page).<br>You can also rotate them by rightclicking them with an Engineer's Hammer.
ie.manual.entry.metalconstruction3=Metal ladders are...well, ladders made from metal. You can climb them, and they look cool.<br>You can also combine them with Scaffolding to make them into Covered Ladders.

ie.manual.entry.lighting.name=Engineered Lighting
ie.manual.entry.lighting.subtext=Lighting up the Wasteland
ie.manual.entry.lighting0=Deep in the halls of the factories, it can be quite dark. In order to still find your way around the machines, you should probably light up the place with some Lanterns. These Lanterns provide almost as much light as a glowstone block would.
ie.manual.entry.lighting1=Powered Lanterns are one of the first ever invented uses for electric power. To run these, you need to connect them directly to your power grid using wires. They will allow power to be transferred through them, so you can link them in a row.<br>Using the Engineer's Hammer on them will flip them upside down.
ie.manual.entry.lighting2=As long as they are supplied with a little bit of power, they will light up the surrounding area like a normal Lantern, but additionally, they will also prevent hostile mobs to spawn in a 32 block radius!
ie.manual.entry.lighting3=Floodlights are strong lightsources. While they require more power than a simple Powered Lantern, they will create a cone of light up to 32 blocks long. Use an Engineer's Hammer on the top or bottom faces of the block to rotate the light or click its sides to change its pitch.
ie.manual.entry.lighting4=Generally, Floodlights require a redstone signal to run, however their control-behavior can be inverted by sneaking and right-clicking their base with an Engineer's Hammer.

ie.manual.entry.metalPress.name=Metal Press
ie.manual.entry.metalPress.subtext=Under Pressure!
ie.manual.entry.metalPress0=The Metal Press is an automated way of shaping metal. It uses a high pressure piston to press a mold onto an ingot, forming it into a plate, rod or other metal components.<br>The structure is created as shown above, to form the multiblock, click the piston with an Engineer's Hammer.
ie.manual.entry.metalPress1=Power is input through the top, and items through the conveyors, obviously in the direction of movement. The lower middle block is the redstone control port, rightclicking it with an Engineer's Hammer allows you to invert the redstone control.
ie.manual.entry.metalPress2=To actually work, the metal press requires a mold to be attached to the piston. These molds are created in the <link;workbench;§o§nEngineer's §o§nWorkbench§r> using the blueprint displayed above.
ie.manual.entry.metalPress3=Molds are crafted as shown above, with the wirecutter taking some damage for every crafting operation. They are then inserted into the metal press by right-clicking the multiblock with a mold in hand.
ie.manual.entry.metalPress4=The packing and unpacking molds can be used to compress 4 or 9 of the same item into their relevant storage form, as well as unpack them again. This can be utilized to store ingots as blocks, or automatically create simple blocks like Sandstone.

ie.manual.entry.tank.name=Tank
ie.manual.entry.tank.subtext=Full to the brim!
ie.manual.entry.tank0=The Tank is a multiblock that provides space for large amounts of fluid. It will store up to 512 buckets of any fluid, which can be piped in through the top or bottom block. Fluids can only be extracted from the bottom center block.
ie.manual.entry.tank1=Applying a redstone signal to the bottom center block will make the tank output automatically, a comparator placed there will emit a redstone signal proportional to how full the tank is. Attaching the comparator to one of the top 4 layers results in a signal proportional to the height of the comparator. For example, a comparator attached to the second layer of a tank would not emit any signal until the tank is 1/4 full and have a signal strength of 15 if the tank is half full or more.

ie.manual.entry.silo.name=Silo
ie.manual.entry.silo.subtext=Full to the brim!
ie.manual.entry.silo0=Silos offer space for a lot of items of the same type, making them excellent for mass storage of seeds, slag or cobblestone. They have space for 41472 items, equaling the capacity of 24 chests.
ie.manual.entry.silo1=Items must be input through the top and extracted from the bottom. Applying a redstone signal to the bottom block will make it output automatically.
ie.manual.entry.silo2=A comparator attached to the bottom center block will it emit a redstone signal proportional to how full the silo is. Attaching the comparator to one of the top 6 layers results in a signal proportional to the height of the comparator. For example, a comparator attached to the third layer of a silo would not emit any signal until the tank is 2/6 full and have a signal strength of 15 if the silo is half full or more.

ie.manual.entry.metalbarrel.name=Metal Barrel
ie.manual.entry.metalbarrel.subtext=Doesn't roll
ie.manual.entry.metalbarrel0=Metal barrels work exactly like <link;barrel;§o§nWooden §o§nBarrels§r;>. They store the same amount of fluid and their in- and outputs are configured the same way, but unlike the wooden version, these can store gasses and hot fluids, and won't output automatically if receiving a redstone signal

ie.manual.entry.assembler.name=Assembler
ie.manual.entry.assembler.subtext=Some assembly required
ie.manual.entry.assembler0=The Assembler is a complex machine capable of crafting items, similar to how a player would.<br>To form the structure, build it like demonstrated above and use the hammer on one of the conveyors.
ie.manual.entry.assembler1=The conveyor you clicked will be the input side, indicated by the blue marker above it and the arrow on the side of the machine.<br>The Assembler allows for up to 3 recipes to be stored inside it that will be performed in order. The outputs of previous recipes can be used as inputs for the following.<br>The 3 crafting grids store the recipes, and the 18 slots below them are the inventory for materials.
ie.manual.entry.assembler2=The input side, in addition to an item input also features a fluid input to fill the three internal tanks of the machine. Fluid in these tanks can be used to replace fluid containers like water buckets in recipes.<br>Power for the machine is input through the top center block.

ie.manual.entry.autoworkbench.name=Automated Workbench
ie.manual.entry.autoworkbench.subtext=For those who can't drive stick
ie.manual.entry.autoworkbench0=The Automatic Workbench is one of the first major successes of small-scale engineering.<br>The machine is able to follow a set of instructions described by a <link;blueprints;§o§nBlueprint§r> to assemble the items detailed by it.
ie.manual.entry.autoworkbench1=Upon assembling the multiblocks, a Blueprint can be placed on its drawing table. After selecting the item that should be created, it will begin the assembly process. In order for the machine to work, it will need to be supplied with materials and power of course.<br>Item inputs are the two hatches marked with blue dots, the power input lies above them. Finished items are dropped at the end of the conveyor belt.<br>A redstone signal below the drawing table can be used for control.

ie.manual.entry.bottlingMachine.name=Bottling Machine
ie.manual.entry.bottlingMachine.subtext=Fill 'er up!
ie.manual.entry.bottlingMachine0=The Bottling Machine fills fluids into containers.<br>The structure is created as shown above, but can be mirrored. To form it, rightclick the central coveyor with an Engineer's Hammer. The direction of the conveyors is important.
ie.manual.entry.bottlingMachine1=Fluid is input through the ports on the lower block of the metal tank. Energy is input through the port at the top of the opposing side.<br>Generally, the Bottling Machine will be able to fill any container that has a filled version available (bucket, glass bottle). It will also accept other items that can store fluids, like the <link;drill;§o§nMining §o§nDrill§r> or a <link;jerrycan;§o§nJerrycan§r>.<br>Additionally, special recipes may be available.

ie.manual.entry.chargingStation.name=Charging Station
ie.manual.entry.chargingStation.subtext=Charge your glasses!
ie.manual.entry.chargingStation0=The Charging Station is a device that allows you to charge tools and other items. Energy can be input through the bottom or the back and items can be placed in manually or inserted automatically.
ie.manual.entry.chargingStation1=The electron tubes at the front give a feedback about the current charge of the item, but the block will also output a comparator signal for the same purposes.

ie.manual.entry.belljar.name=Garden Cloche
ie.manual.entry.belljar.subtext=Localized Rainforest
ie.manual.entry.belljar0=The Garden Cloche, or Belljar, is a device designed to hasten the growth of plants. It allows even the an agriculturally challenged engineer to grow plants and harvest their yield.
ie.manual.entry.belljar1=The device accepts power, fluid and items through its respective ports. Water and power are always required, various fertilizers are optional. The GUI features slots for soil and seed in the middle, fertilizer on the left and outputs on the right.<br>The hatch on the front of the glass dome is the only automatic output. Every seed needs to be paired with the correct soil to grow on, with dirt being automatically recognized as farmland.

ie.manual.entry.highvoltage.name=High-Voltage
ie.manual.entry.highvoltage.subtext=You can't shake the shock
ie.manual.entry.highvoltage0=High-Voltage wires have the highest available transfer rate (<config;iA;wireTransferRate;2> Flux/t) and will need special connectors. Note that on High voltage connections, §oConnectors and Relays are different blocks§r, Relays will not be able to in- or output to the energy net. Furthermore, §oRelays can only be placed on the underside of the block.§r<br>To transition from HV to LV or MV connections, you will need High-Voltage Transformers, and keep in mind, the lowest tier of wire limits the transferrate of an entire connection.

ie.manual.entry.multiblocks.name=Multiblock Constructions
ie.manual.entry.multiblocks.subtext=Where's my Allen Wrench?
ie.manual.entry.multiblocks0=Fitting complex machinery into a single 1x1x1 cube seems to be a task unmanageable without the use of magic or possibly shrink rays. So in order to create more complex machines, you will need component blocks. The most common ones have been listed on the following pages.

ie.manual.entry.workbench.name=Workbench & Blueprints
ie.manual.entry.workbench.subtext=Always cluttered
ie.manual.entry.workbench0=The Engineer's Workbench is a professional worktable for the educated engineer. It is widely used to construct the items described in <link;blueprints;§o§nEngineer's §o§nBlueprints§r>.<br>A wide variety of blueprints can be crafted, as detailed in the respective manual entry, whereas a few select ones can only be discovered in the world or purchased from villagers.
ie.manual.entry.workbench1=To use a blueprint in the Workbench, it in the slot on the left of the GUI and the necessary ingredients in the six slots in the middle. The resulting items can then be retrieved from the right side. Hovering your mouse over these output slots will inform you exactly which materials are needed for each item.
ie.manual.entry.workbench2=A secondary function of the Workbench is the modification and configuration of more complex tools and gadgets. Examples like the <link;drill;§o§nMining §o§nDrill§r>, <link;shield;§o§nHeavy §o§nPlated §o§nShield§r> or <link;revolver;§o§nRevolver§r> are examples of such items. When placed in the main slot of the workbench, it's use becomes that of modifying these tools by inserting applicable upgrades into the new slots that appear.

ie.manual.entry.blueprints.name=Engineer's Blueprints
ie.manual.entry.blueprints.subtext=Back to the drawing board
ie.manual.entry.blueprints0=This page features all Engineer's Blueprints that can be crafted by normal means. Other Blueprints may need to be acquired from villagers or found in the world. All of these can be used in an <link;workbench;§o§nEngineer's §o§nWorkbench§r> to craft the items they describe.

ie.manual.entry.mixer.name=Mixer
ie.manual.entry.mixer.subtext=Vats of Cookie Dough!
ie.manual.entry.mixer0=The Mixer is a multiblock structure that dissolves solids in fluids, mixing them together. The structure is built as shown above and formed by using the Engineer's Hammer on the central sheetmetal block.
ie.manual.entry.mixer1=The most common uses for this machine are the mixing of fluid concrete from water, 2 parts sand 1 part gravel and 1 part clay, or the creation of potions from water and their various ingredients.
ie.manual.entry.mixer2=Fluids are input into the mixer through the port at the bottom of its powersupply. Items can be input via the two hatches at the back. The fluid port at the front serves as the fluid output.<br>Applying a redstone signal to the control panel at the front will halt the machine's process, this behavior can be inverted by use of the Engineer's Hammer.

ie.manual.entry.squeezer.name=Squeezer
ie.manual.entry.squeezer.subtext=Pressing matters
ie.manual.entry.squeezer0=The Squeezer is a multiblock structure that presses juice or oil out of organic materials by use of a big piston. The structure is built as shown above and formed by using the Engineer's Hammer on the central wooden barrel, from the side that has the Engineering Blocks.
ie.manual.entry.squeezer1=Items can be input into the Squeezer via the two hatches at the back that are marked with blue dots. The hatch with the orange dot serves as an item output and the block below it to output fluids.<br>Applying a redstone signal to the control panel at the front will halt the machine's process, this behavior can be inverted by use of the Engineer's Hammer.
ie.manual.entry.squeezer2T=The following list shows various items that can be squeezed into plant oil, and the amount they produce.

ie.manual.entry.fermenter.name=Fermenter
ie.manual.entry.fermenter.subtext=Skál!
ie.manual.entry.fermenter0=The Fermenter is a multiblock structure that extracts ethanol from certain fruits, grains and vegetables through a fermenting process. The structure is built as shown above and formed by using the Engineer's Hammer on the central cauldron, from the side that has the Engineering Blocks.
ie.manual.entry.fermenter1=Items can be input into the Fermenter via the two hatches at the back that are marked with blue dots. The hatch with the orange dot serves as an item output and the block below it to output fluids.<br>Applying a redstone signal to the control panel at the front will halt the machine's process, this behavior can be inverted by use of the Engineer's Hammer.
ie.manual.entry.fermenter2T=The following list shows various items that can be fermented into ethanol, and the amount they produce.

ie.manual.entry.refinery.name=Refinery
ie.manual.entry.refinery.subtext=Fluid mixing!
ie.manual.entry.refinery0=The Refinery is a complex multiblock that can refine one or two fluids into another. The most common application of this is the refinement of <link;squeezer;Plant Oil> and <link;fermenter;Ethanol> into Biodiesel.
ie.manual.entry.refinery1=To form the structure, rightclick the Heavy Engineering Block on the middle layer.<br>Fluids are input through the two ports on either side of the block and output through the orange marked port at the front.<br>Applying a redstone signal to the control panel at the front will halt the machine's process, this behavior can be inverted by use of the Engineer's Hammer.

ie.manual.entry.dieselgen.name=Diesel Generator
ie.manual.entry.dieselgen.subtext=Better than volume: More volume.
ie.manual.entry.dieselgen0=High-Voltage architecture might be fascinating, but it's not very useful unless you have a generator that can actually create the required output for it.<br>The Diesel Generator is one of the few ways of generating this sort of energy. It is created as a complex multiblock structure and will run off of <link;refinery;§o§nBiodiesel§r> or other types of combustible fuel. Due to its high output, it will work through fuel very quickly, so make sure you have a sufficient fuel production to run it.
ie.manual.entry.dieselgen1=The structure is built from Engineering, Generator and Radiator blocks as well as Fluid Pipes and Scaffolding. Arrange them in the shape shown above and rightclick the central generator with an Engineer's Hammer.
ie.manual.entry.dieselgen2=Fuel is to be input at the bottom corners of the generator, whereas energy will be output to up to three connections on the top. The <config;i;dieselGen_output>Flux/t the generator outputs will be split between all connected points.<br>The small terminal on the side will turn off the generator if supplied with a redstone signal, this behavior can be inverted by use of the Engineer's Hammer.
ie.manual.entry.dieselgen3=The following table lists all valid fuels for the Diesel Generator and for how long in seconds (ticks) they burn.

ie.manual.entry.biodiesel.name=Biodiesel
ie.manual.entry.biodiesel.subtext=Green power!
ie.manual.entry.biodiesel0=Combustible fuels are an easy to use and efficient fuel source. But with oil being a depletable resource, something renewable would be much preferable. Biodiesel is the solution! By combining plant oil and ethanol, you can create a combustible fluid that will burn in the <link;dieselgen;§o§nDiesel §o§nGenerator§r>.
ie.manual.entry.biodiesel1=Plant Oil is created by processing various seeds in the industrial squeezer. Create the structure pictured above and click one of the sides with an Engineer's Hammer to form it. Power is input at the top or bottom, fluids are output through any of the ports at the
ie.manual.entry.biodiesel1T=bottom of each side.<br>The following list shows various items that can be squeezed into plant oil, and the amount they produce.
ie.manual.entry.biodiesel2=Ethanol is gained by fermenting sugarcane or other fruit. The fermenter's structure is created in a similar manner to that of the squeezer, as such power in- and fluid outputs are identical.
ie.manual.entry.biodiesel2T=The following list shows various items that can be fermented into ethanol, and the amount they produce.
ie.manual.entry.biodiesel3=Lastly, in order to refine plant oil and ethanol into Biodiesel, you will need to insert both fluids into a refinery and supply it with power. The structure is created as shown above and formed by clicking the center of the front with an
ie.manual.entry.biodiesel4=Engineer's Hammer.<br>The front of the refinery serves as fluid output, whereas the inputs are found on the smaller sides. Energy is supplied through the connector at the back. Applying a redstone signal to the control panel on the right will halt the refinery's process.

ie.manual.entry.conveyor.name=Conveyor Belts
ie.manual.entry.conveyor.subtext=Who needs rails anyway?
ie.manual.entry.conveyor0=Conveyor Belts are an easy way of transporting all sorts of things around your base. While they are strong enough to move living creatures like cows or sheep, their true strength lies in transporting items.<br>Throwing items atop them will have the items move along the belt. Should the belt lead into an inventory, the item will be inserted.
ie.manual.entry.conveyor1=Blocks like hoppers will be able to drop items onto the belts. Use an Engineer's Hammer to rotate the belts (rightclick) or adjust whether they should run up- or downwards (sneak + rightclick).<br>Using a redstone signal on a conveyor will turn it off, this behavior can be disabled by crafting it into a redstone-ignoring version. <br>Rightclicking a conveyor with any dye will colour the walls of the conveyor to easily identify where it is going.
ie.manual.entry.conveyor2=The Dropping Conveyor Belt is quite simply a conveyor with a hatch in the middle, allowing it to drop items that pass over it downwards.<br>Items will be inserted into inventories below or simply dropped if there is an empty space below the conveyor.
ie.manual.entry.conveyor3=The Extracting Conveyor Belt possesses the ability to extract items from an inventory in a similar fashion to a Hopper. Unlike the latter however, it posesses no internal inventory and will place extracted items on the belt.<br>Sneak + rightlick with an Engineer's Hammer to change its input side. Use a wirecutter to adjust its tickrate.
ie.manual.entry.conveyor4=The Vertical Conveyor Belt is a belt meant to be mounted on walls. Using the buckets attached to it, it will lift entities straight up. Despite the use of the term "bucket", it will not lift fluids.<br>This belt can insert into inventories above it or simply expel items over the edge at the top onto more conveyors.
ie.manual.entry.conveyor5=The Splitting Conveyor Belt alternates between redirecting Items and Entities left and right, plain and simple. This feature can be used to achieve a more equal distribution in your factories.
ie.manual.entry.conveyor6=The Covered Conveyor Belt works just like a normal conveyor, however it is covered by a piece of scaffolding, which prevents players from picking up items from it.<br>You can rightclick it with other types of scaffold or glass to change the cover's appearance.
ie.manual.entry.conveyor7=Similarly, the Dropping, Extracting and Vertical Conveyors can also be covered in scaffolding to achieve the same benefits of "pickup-prevention" while still functioning as they normally do.

ie.manual.entry.furnaceHeater.name=External Heater
ie.manual.entry.furnaceHeater.subtext=Now you're cooking with flux!
ie.manual.entry.furnaceHeater0=The External Heater does exactly what its name implies, it generates thermal energy from Flux. When placed next to a normal furnace, this thermal energy will power the furnace, allowing it to smelt without any fuel inside it.
ie.manual.entry.furnaceHeater1=Click a side of the heater with a hammer to make it an energy acceptor, sneak to target the opposing side.<br>The heater will consume §o<config;i;heater_consumption> Flux/t§r for each heat unit added. During the initial phase of the furnace, the heater will produce up to §o4§r units of heat per tick, but as soon as the furnace reaches maximum temperature, it will only require §o1§r unit of heat to keep it going.
ie.manual.entry.furnaceHeater2=Even better, while the furnace is at maximum temperature, the heater will consume an additional §o<config;i;heater_speedupConsumption> Flux/t§r to increase the furnace's processing speed.<br>The heater will only affect a furnace with a valid input and space in the output slot, in order to conserve energy. However, you can apply a redstone signal to the heater to disable that functionality and have it keep the furnace at full heat.

ie.manual.entry.teslaCoil.name=Tesla Coil
ie.manual.entry.teslaCoil.subtext=This one goes up to 11
ie.manual.entry.teslaCoil0=The Tesla Coil started as a concept of wireless energy transfer. However, due to its potentially high loss rates and it's rather interesting property of frying every living being in a 6 meter radius, it was quickly converted into an Engineer's dream of home defense.
ie.manual.entry.teslaCoil1=The upkeep cost of this machine is high, clocking in at a regular <config;i;teslacoil_consumption> Flux in passive consumption plus an additional <config;i;teslacoil_consumption_active> every time it applies damage.<br>The coil is disabled unless supplied with a redstone signal. Rightclicking it with an Engineer's Hammer will invert this behaviour.<br>In addition to damage, the shocks will also apply a lingering debuff, "Stunned", preventing the entity from teleporting.
ie.manual.entry.teslaCoil2=Rightclicking the coil with an Engineer's Hammer while sneaking will toggle the coil between high- and low-power mode. To be able to do so safely the coil has to be turned off. It is in high-power mode by default. When the coil is in low-power mode it will use half the usual energy and have
ie.manual.entry.teslaCoil3=half the range. If you are wearing a full Faraday suit, a coil in low-power mode won't harm you, but still shoot lightning at you. Coils in high-power mode will cause the suit to melt, thereby increasing the damage done to you and additionally damaging the suit.<br>Fluorescent tubes glow when placed inside a strong high-frequency electric field. Such a field is generated by any tesla coil, so placing a tube near an active tesla coil will cause it to glow. The range is about 1.5 times the range in
ie.manual.entry.teslaCoil4=which you will be hit by lightning. They can be colored in the engineer's workbench and rotated by (shift) rightclicking them with an Engineer's Hammer

ie.manual.entry.fluidPipes.name=Fluid Transport
ie.manual.entry.fluidPipes.subtext=Professional Plumber
ie.manual.entry.fluidPipes0=Transporting fluids has become quite essential in the engineering business. Fluid Pipes and Fluid Pumps do exactly that. On their own, Fluid Pipes are quite slow at transferring fluids, but if a pump is used to insert the fluid, it'll move much faster.
ie.manual.entry.fluidPipes1=You can rightclick the connection piece of a pipe with an Engineer's Hammer to prevent it from connecting to that side.<br>Fluid Pipes can be covered with wooden or steel scaffolding. Simply rightclick a piece of scaffolding onto a pipe to cover it. Break the pipe to retrieve the scaffolding.
ie.manual.entry.fluidPipes2=Fluid Pumps have three essential functions. They can be used to insert into pipes at high pressure, to transfer fluids much faster, or they can pick up fluids from the world. Using your hammer on the base of the pump will switch the sides between in- and output.
ie.manual.entry.fluidPipes3=In order for the pump to pick up fluid blocks, it will need a power input at the top and a redstone signal. Pumps can also be used to extract from tanks and other fluid containers that do not have an automatic output. This will also require a redstone signal, but won't consume power.
ie.manual.entry.fluidPipes4=<config;b;pump_infiniteWater;Water blocks will serve as an infinite fluid source for the pump, as long as more than 3 blocks are connected.<br><br>;><config;b;pump_placeCobble;Fluid blocks that were picked up will be replaced with cobblestone to reduce the lag of flowing fluids. This behaviour can be toggled off and on by using an Engineer's Hammer on the pump.;>
ie.manual.entry.fluidPipes5=The Fluid Outlet acts as an endpoint for a pipe system, allowing Fluid to be placed in the world. The sides can be configured between input, output (open gate) or closed, a redstone signal can be used to turn the outlet off.<br>The block will only ever output fluid up to its own heightlevel.

ie.manual.entry.sorter.name=Item Router
ie.manual.entry.sorter.subtext=Left foot yellow, right hand green
ie.manual.entry.sorter0=The Item Router is a block which will accept and redistribute items down filtered paths. Place it down and rightclick it to open the interface, which shows six different, colour and direction coordinated filters.
ie.manual.entry.sorter1=When an item enters the router, it will be routed to an output whose filter matches the item, or, if no matching filter is found, it routes to an unfiltered output. If the router cannot route the item in the first place, it will not allow the item to enter the router. Items also can not be output to the side it was inserted from.<br>The buttons above each filter can be used to have the router respect or ignore OreDictionary, NBT and Metadata.

ie.manual.entry.fluidSorter.name=Fluid Router
ie.manual.entry.fluidSorter.subtext=Milk goes left, acid goes right
ie.manual.entry.fluidSorter0=The Fluid Router works much akin to the <link;sorter;§o§nItem §o§nRouter§r>. Fluids input through any side will be redistributed based on how the six side filters are set up. Clicking a bucket or any other type of fluid container into the slots of the GUI will configure the filter to that fluid.
ie.manual.entry.fluidSorter1=When any fluids are piped into the router, they will be routed to an output whose filter matches the fluid, or, if no matching filter is found, the fluid routes to an unfiltered output. If there is no available or valid route, no fluid will be accepted.<br>The buttons above each filter can be used to have the router respect or ignore the fluid's NBT data.

ie.manual.entry.turntable.name=Turntable
ie.manual.entry.turntable.subtext=I can't keep up
ie.manual.entry.turntable0=The Turntable will rotate blocks placed against it.<br>Holding an Engineer's Hammer while looking at the machine displays its active side and turn direction. Rightclicking with the Hammer will reorient it, sneaking while doing so will invert the Turntable's rotation direction.

ie.manual.entry.drill.name=Mining Drill
ie.manual.entry.drill.subtext=My drill will pierce the Bedrock!
ie.manual.entry.drill0=The handheld, diesel-powered drill is a big advancement in mining. With exchangeable drill heads and upgrades, its properties are almost entirely modifiable. To modify it, place it in an <link;workbench;§o§nEngineer's §o§nWorkbench§r>.<br>The drill runs off of <link;refinery;§o§nBiodiesel§r> and can be filled directly in the refinery.
ie.manual.entry.drill1=The §6Drill Head§r determines the base §6mining level§r, §6speed§r, and §6size§r, as well as the §6attack damage§r. As you dig blocks, the drill head takes damage, but it can be repaired in an anvil.
ie.manual.entry.drill2=As the drill is powered by a combustion engine, it will not run underwater unless you equip it with the Pressurized Air Tank Upgrade. However, with this upgrade equipped, it will not only run while submerged, but also ignore the slowdown usually experienced when digging in water.
ie.manual.entry.drill3=The §6Advanced Lubrication System§r applies additional lubricant to the drill at a regular basis, decreasing the damage done to the drillhead.
ie.manual.entry.drill4=By adding §6Additional Augers§r to the drill, its destructive potential is increased, increasing its damage against living creatures and allowing it to run and dig faster.<br>The upgrade stacks up to three times.
ie.manual.entry.drill5=The §6Large Fuel Tank§r allows the drill to store more fuel internally, extending the time you can use it before refilling.

ie.manual.entry.maintenanceKit.name=Maintenance Kit
ie.manual.entry.maintenanceKit.subtext=On the go repairs
ie.manual.entry.maintenanceKit0=Among those Engineers that travel the world or spend much of their time in mines, one problem crystalizes itself. Their tools require constant maintenance, and carrying around an entire workbench just isn't viable. Fortunately, the majority of minor repairs and re-configurations can be performed with a maintenance kit.
ie.manual.entry.maintenanceKit1=A set of tools, wrapped in sturdy hemp cloth, the maintenance kit allows you to customize your tools much in the way the <link;workbench;§o§nEngineer's §o§nWorkbench§r> does. No longer will you have to deal with resurfacing to change the head on your Mining Drill or head back to your workshop to configure your Ear Defenders. All of this can now be performed on the go with the Maintenance Kit!

ie.manual.entry.revolver.name=Revolver
ie.manual.entry.revolver.subtext=Wanted: Dead or Alive
ie.manual.entry.revolver0=The Revolver, a more elegant weapon from a more civilized age, is an achievement of small mechanics. Small being relative here, since this weapon is chambered for 12-gauge.<br>Similar to the Mining Drill, the Revolver will allow for modification in the <link;workbench;§o§nEngineer's §o§nWorkbench§r>, as detailed on the last pages.
ie.manual.entry.revolver1=There are different <link;bullets;§o§ntypes §o§nof §o§nammunition§r;> the Revolver will accept. To load it, sneak+rightclick the weapon, then place cartridges into the slots.<br>A loaded Speedloader in your inventory will be used to refill the revolver after you've fired your last shot.
ie.manual.entry.revolver2=By attaching a §6bayonet§r to the revolver, you outfit it with close-quarter-combat capabilities, allowing for melee damage as powerful as an Iron Sword.
ie.manual.entry.revolver3=The §6Extended Magazine§r allows loading 6 more cartridges into the revolver. This magazine does not get refilled by a speedloader.
ie.manual.entry.revolver4=The §6Amplifying Electron Tubes§r apply an electric shock to fired projectiles. This shock persists till it hits the target (don't ask how it works) and is passed on. The target will be stunned for a fraction of a second and all powered equipment they may be using will suffer a slight discharge.

ie.manual.entry.bullets.name=Revolver Cartridges
ie.manual.entry.bullets.subtext=
ie.manual.entry.bullets0=Cartridges are created in the Engineer's Workbench, by the use of specific <link;blueprints;§o§nEngineer's §o§nBlueprints§r>. Blueprints for normal ammunition you can create yourself, but some more advanced types of ammunition will require you to buy adequate blueprints from someone else.
ie.manual.entry.bullets1=§lEmpty §lCasings§r and §lShells§r are the basis for every projectile. Empty Casings can also be crafted in the <link;metalPress;§o§nMetal §o§nPress§r>, using the appropriate mold, at a greatly reduced cost.
ie.manual.entry.bullets_casull=§lCasull §lCartridges§r are created with a "Common Projectiles" blueprint. They are a simple lead projectile inflicting medium damage.
ie.manual.entry.bullets_armorPiercing=§lArmor-Piercing §lCartridges§r are created with the same blueprint. They do the same amount of damage but penetrate armor by sheer kinetic force.
ie.manual.entry.bullets_buckshot=§lBuckshot §lCartridges§r, created with the aformentioned blueprint, are filled with multiple small projectiles that are fired out in a cone shape. This cartridge is highly effective at short range.
ie.manual.entry.bullets_HE=§lHigh-Explosive §lCartridges§r are created with a "Common Projectiles" blueprint. They fire a projectile that explodes on impact, causing damage to living creatures and terrain.
ie.manual.entry.bullets_silver=§lSilver §lCartridges§r consist of a lead core wrapped in silver, making them highly effective against undead.
ie.manual.entry.bullets_dragonsbreath=§lDragon's §lBreath Cartridges§r are created with a "Specialized Projectiles" blueprint. Similarly to Buckshot, they are effective at short range, but instead of small metal shots, they are filled with a flammable metal dust, creating a blast of flame.
ie.manual.entry.bullets_potion=§lPhial §lCartridges§r are also created with the "Specialized" blueprint. They can be filled with any potion by crafting them together in a crafting grid and this potion will then be applied on impact. Normal potions require a direct hit, splash potions have an area of effect and Lingering Potions will create a temporary, lingering potion cloud.
ie.manual.entry.bullets_flare=§lFlare §lCartridges§r are created with the "Specialized" blueprint. When fired, the flare explodes after a certain distance and then slowly sinks to the ground. You can combine the cartridge with dyes in a crafting table to change its colour.
ie.manual.entry.bullets_wolfpack=§lWolfpack §lCartridges§r are a collection of multiple homing shots in a single shell. The initial projectile is unguided, but on impact, it splits into six target seeking shots that shred the enemies.

ie.manual.entry.chemthrower.name=Chemical Thrower
ie.manual.entry.chemthrower.subtext=BURN ALL THE THINGS!
ie.manual.entry.chemthrower0=The Chemical Thrower is a device that propels fluids from its internal tank. The device can be loaded with any fluid, liquid or gas, and, on right click, will spray it out.<br>It also features a function to ignite the fluid, if it is flammable. To toggle the pilot light, sneak and rightclick.
ie.manual.entry.chemthrower1=Like some other tools, the chemical thrower can be modified in the <link;workbench;§o§nEngineer's §o§nWorkbench§r>. These upgrades affect the size of the tank, range and spread.<br><br>The §6Large Tank§r increases the fluid capacity of the Chemical Thrower by 2000 mb.
ie.manual.entry.chemthrower2=The §6Focused Nozzle§r decreases the spread of fluids sprayed out and also slightly increases their range, allowing you to hit further targets with more precision.
ie.manual.entry.chemthrower3=The §6Multitank§r allows the Chemthrower to store up to three different Fluids. You can select the active tank by <config;b;chemthrower_scroll;sneaking and using the scrollwheel, or through use of;using> the keybind §l<keybind;key.immersiveengineering.chemthrowerSwitch>§r if it has been set in the options.<br>This upgrade is mutually exclusive to the §6Large Tank§r.

ie.manual.entry.skyhook.name=Engineer's Skyhook
ie.manual.entry.skyhook.subtext=Booker, catch!
ie.manual.entry.skyhook0=The Engineer's Skyhook is a motorized grabber system designed to hook onto wires, hemp ropes or steel cables.<br>With it, engineers can quickly traverse the length of a powerline to move between substations or other installations.
ie.manual.entry.skyhook1=Simply hold the right mouse button while close to a wire and you will be attached to it.<br>The button can be released while riding the wire, but letting go of the skyhook or sneaking will cause you to dismount.<br>Gravity will be sufficient to move along decending wires at a decent speed, the standard movement keys can be used to move along ascending wires.<br>When the skyhook reaches an intersection it will continue in as close to the direction the player is looking as possible.

ie.manual.entry.shader.name=Shaders
ie.manual.entry.shader.subtext=Blue! No, yellow!
ie.manual.entry.shader0=Shaders are items you can find in the world or aquire by trading with villagers. They don't have a purpose by themselves, but they can be equipped to <link;revolver;§o§nRevolvers§r>, <link;drill;§o§nDrills§r>, <link;chemthrower;§o§nChemical §o§nThrowers§r>, <link;shield;§o§nPlated §o§nShield§r> or <link;railgun;§o§nRailguns§r>(and possibly other things you still have to discover) to change the designs of the item. Simply put the item in an <link;workbench;§o§nEngineer's §o§nWorkbench§r> and equip the shader in the appropriate slot.<br>You can also apply them to a Minecart, Banner or a <link;balloon;§o§nBalloon§r> by rightclicking!
ie.manual.entry.shader1=For a full list of all available shaders, their looks, references and more details, <link;shaderList;§o§ncheck §o§nhere§r>
ie.manual.entry.shader2=Shader Grabbags are items containing a random shader. They can be found in crates, traded from villagers or dropped by bosses. The rarity of the contained shader is equal to, or better than the rarity of the bag. When using a bag, you are more likely to get a shader you do not yet own, than one you already posess.
ie.manual.entry.shader3=Shaders bags can be crafted into two bags of a lower level. This will lower your chances of getting rarer shaders but provide you with more attempts.
//Shaders themselves can also be crafted into a single bag of the lower level.

ie.manual.entry.shaderList.name=List of Shaders
ie.manual.entry.shaderList.noInfo=You have not unlocked this shader yet!
ie.manual.entry.shaderList.unlock=Unlock this shader
ie.manual.entry.shaderList.order=Acquire:

ie.manual.entry.powerpack.name=Capacitor Backpack
ie.manual.entry.powerpack.subtext=Do....Ray....Egon!
ie.manual.entry.powerpack0=Energy storage takes space and some heavy weight components. As such, storing large amounts of energy in each tool individually is inefficient and makes them akward to wield.<br>The Capacitor Backpack acts as a compromise, offering a centralized storage of energy for any powered tools to tap into.
ie.manual.entry.powerpack1=The backpack charges any tools held in main- or offhand as well as any armorpieces you are wearing.<br>The capacitor can be worn on your back like a piece of chest armor, or you may attach it to most common sets of armor in order to gain the benefit of a power-supply as well as protection.

ie.manual.entry.railgun.name=Railgun
ie.manual.entry.railgun.subtext=Velocitas Eradico
ie.manual.entry.railgun0=The Railgun (or more accurately the Portable Induction Catapult) is a marvel of engineering. It consists of two rails through which an electric current flows and accelerates a sled, and by that, a projectile.<br>The process is energy intensive but will accelerate various projectiles to high speeds.
ie.manual.entry.railgun1=To launch a projectile from your inventory, click and hold the use button till the charge level reaches 99, then release.<br><br>Valid projectiles include, for instance, §6iron§r and §6steel rods§r<config;b;literalRailGun;, §6rebar§r and almost §6every rail§r from Railcraft;>, as well as §6graphite electrodes§r.<br><br>Due to the low internal energy storage, it is recommended to use the Railgun along with a <link;powerpack;§o§nCapacitor §o§nBackpack§r>.
ie.manual.entry.railgun2=As with other IE tools, the railgun can be modified in the <link;workbench;§o§nEngineer's §o§nWorkbench§r> and be customized with <link;shader;§o§nShaders§r>.<br><br>The §6Additional Capacitors§r greatly reduce the railgun's charge time.
ie.manual.entry.railgun3=The §6Precision Scope§r allows you to zoom in with the railgun. Sneak to use the scope and use the mouse wheel to switch between magnification levels.

ie.manual.entry.razorwire.name=Razorwire
ie.manual.entry.razorwire.subtext=Oversized eggslicer
ie.manual.entry.razorwire0=Razorwire is a wire with sharpened pieces of metal attached. It will slow and cut any entity that tries to move through it.<br>Razorwire can only be removed with Wirecutters, any other attempts will damage the player.<br>Additionally, a LV wire can be connected to electrify the razorwire for extra damage.

ie.manual.entry.turret.name=Turrets
ie.manual.entry.turret.subtext=Are you still there?
ie.manual.entry.turret0=Turrets are the next step in automated defense of your factory. They feature a complex optical system combined with mechanical "brain" to effectively distinguish and acquire targets and use the inbuilt weaponry to neutralize them.<br>All turrets feature energy ports at their base, and require a redstone signal to be active, although this behaviour can be inverted by sneaking and rightclicking it with an Engineer's Hammer.
ie.manual.entry.turret1=Upon being placed, Turrets will remember their owner and will not allow other users to break or modify them. Rightclicking the turret brings up the GUI which features a list of names with an entry field, as well as multiple targeting options.<br>By the default the list is a blacklist of targets that may not be attacked. This list utilizes creatures names, so whitelisting animals is possible.
ie.manual.entry.turret2=The Chemthrower Turret utilizes the fluid propelling capabilities of the <link;chemthrower;§o§neponymous §o§ntool§r> to cover targets in anything, ranging from water to douse flames, to diesel oil to start them.
ie.manual.entry.turret3=The turret features a fluid port in the bottom and back of the base to allow pipes to connect to it. Additionally, the GUI has a button on the left which dis- or enables the pilot flame, igniting the dispensed fluid, provided that it is flammable.<br><br>§oThe providers of this blueprint are not liable for any damage to user, neighbours or various farm animals that may incur.§r
ie.manual.entry.turret4=The Gun Turret features a heavily modified version of the <link;revolver;§o§nRevolver's§r> internals in a far bigger and more imposing casing. The construction also involves an extended magazine to allow for increased internal storage of ammunition.
ie.manual.entry.turret5=A port for the automatic insertion of ammo and extraction of spent casing is located within the back and bottom of the base. The turret can store up to a full stack of cartridges and the GUI features a button to toggle the automatic expulsion of spent casings.<br><br>§oNote that certain ammunitions may cause collateral damage to the user or their property.§r

ie.manual.entry.maneuverGear.name=3D Maneuver Gear
ie.manual.entry.maneuverGear.subtext=Attack on upscaled zombies
ie.manual.entry.maneuverGear0=The 3D Maneuver Gear is a marvel of engineering. It consists of a harness of leather straps, two grappling hooks and a pressurized air propulsion system.<br>The gear is equipped in the <config;b;baubles;Baubles belt slot or the ;>leggings slot and powered with Flux charge.
ie.manual.entry.maneuverGear1=§l§nControls:§r<br>Holding the <keybind;key.immersiveengineering.3dgear> Key will switch you to the Maneuver Gear controls. In this controlmode, the mousebuttons will fire the hooks at the cost of some Flux charge. While the hooks are embedded in an object, holding the button will pull you to that object. A doubleclick will dislodge the hook and return it to you.<br>Double-tapping the <keybind;key.immersiveengineering.3dgear> Key will return both hooks.
ie.manual.entry.maneuverGear2=§l§nPropulsion:§r<br>Pressing the jump key while the <keybind;key.immersiveengineering.3dgear> Key is held will expend some of the pressurized air to give you a quick burst of speed in the direction you are looking. After not using the propulsion system for few seconds, the internal compressor will quickly refill the tank at the cost of Flux charge.<br>Should you land from a height prone to damage you, the system will automatically expend pressurized air to cushion your fall.

ie.manual.entry.crusher.name=Crusher
ie.manual.entry.crusher.subtext=Keep your hands out!
ie.manual.entry.crusher0=Crushing an ore is an effective way of increasing their yield, for each ore creates two dusts which you can then smelt. This industrial-size crusher is a quick way of doing so. The machine's processing speed depends on the power supplied to it.
ie.manual.entry.crusher1=Applying a redstone signal to the control panel at the front will halt the crushers process, this behavior can be inverted by use of the Engineer's Hammer.<br>The structure is formed by right clicking the central block of the front. The front is the wide side of the structure which has a light engineering block at the bottom.
//However, it is not only used for crushing ores. Every living being to fall into the machine will take grave damage and the crusher will output the relevant drops. Likewise, all items that cannot be processed will be destroyed.<br>

ie.manual.entry.lightningrod.name=Lightning Rod
ie.manual.entry.lightningrod.subtext=Thunderstruck!
ie.manual.entry.lightningrod0=Lightning is a phenomenon of nature. It contains a huge amount of raw power, and this lightning rod is able to harness that power.<br>By stacking a lot of steel fences on this multiblock, you increase the chance of a lightning bolt striking it during rain or thunderstorms.
ie.manual.entry.lightningrod1=When the steel pole is struck, the huge amounts of energy created are stored in the base of the lightning rod and then slowly distributed to the energy connections at the sides.<br><br>You can improve the chances of the Lightning Rod getting struck by creating a "net" of steel fences connected to the topmost fence.

ie.manual.entry.minerals.name=Mineral Deposits
ie.manual.entry.minerals.subtext=Oresome
ie.manual.entry.minerals0=The deposits of Ore found around your world are nothing new to you. What you have so far left out of consideration though are mineral veins, which contain a mix of different ores. Due to their wide and thin spread, the average miner can't find them, but a <link;excavator;§o§nspecial §o§nmachine§r> might be able to assist with that.
ie.manual.entry.minerals1=To find and determine minerals in the world, you will want to craft a Core Sample Drill. Supply the machine with power and rightclick it or use redstone to activate it. It drills into the chunk and extracts a core sample which shows if and what mineral was found and its yield.
ie.manual.entry.minerals2=The Drill consumes <config;i;coredrill_consumption> Flux/t and takes <config;i;coredrill_time> ticks to fully retrieve and analyse a sample.<br><br>The sample can also be placed as a block by sneaking and rightclicking. Using a map on the sample block will set a marker for the chunk.<br><br>The following pages list every type of vein and the ores that can be retrieved from them.
ie.manual.entry.minerals3=%1$s<br>It consists of %2$s.
ie.manual.entry.mineralsDimValid=§l%1$s§r is a mineral vein that can be found in the %2$s.
ie.manual.entry.mineralsDimInvalid=§l%1$s§r is a mineral vein that can be found anywhere but in the %2$s.
ie.manual.entry.mineralsDimAny=§l%1$s§r is a mineral vein that can be found in any Dimension.

ie.manual.entry.arcfurnace.name=Arc Furnace
ie.manual.entry.arcfurnace.subtext=Not a reactor
ie.manual.entry.arcfurnace0=The Arc Furnace is a massive structure used to quickly smelt metals. It consists of a steel vat topped by electrodes which heat up the metal.
ie.manual.entry.arcfurnace1=The furnace excels at smelting ores and creating steel due to its high speed and its ability to process multiple items at the same time, but it is also complex in its workings and will require maintenance in order to continue functioning.<br>Slag must be removed from the machine or it will cease to function, and degrading electrodes need to be replaced over time.
ie.manual.entry.arcfurnace2=To form the structure, assemble it as shown on the first page, then click the cauldron with an Engineer's Hammer.<br><br>Energy is input through the three connectors at the back, and supplying the control panel at the front with a redstone signal will turn off the machine. Right-clicking the panel, 'bucket' or vat will open the interface.
ie.manual.entry.arcfurnace3=§lInterface:§r<br>The interface may look confusing upon first seeing it, but it's quite straight forward.<br><br>The three slots at the top are for the <link;graphite;§o§nGraphite §o§nElectrodes§r;1>.<br>The twelve slots on the left are the input slots for metals and ores. Each slot has a temperature bar next to it, representing the progress of smelting.
ie.manual.entry.arcfurnace4=The four slots on the right are for "additives", different materials added to the molten metal during the crafting process. An example of these would be adding Coke Dust to melting Iron in order to create Steel.<br>Inputs and additives are inserted through the two hatches at the top of the structure, inputs to the left and additives to the right of the electrodes.
ie.manual.entry.arcfurnace5=The seven slots at the bottom are six output slots and a slot for slag. Outputs are retrieved from the 'bucket' at the front of the structure, slag through the port at the back of the machine. The Arc Furnace will automatically push output and slag to connected inventories (this includes Conveyor Belts).

ie.manual.entry.excavator.name=Excavator
ie.manual.entry.excavator.subtext=Better than Dwarves
ie.manual.entry.excavator0=The Excavator is one of the pinnacles of modern engineering. It is able to dig up <link;minerals;§o§nminerals§r;0> from veins inaccessible by normal mining. In return however, the excavator is a complex structure which requires <config;i;excavator_consumption> Flux/t in order to operate.
ie.manual.entry.excavator1=The structure is comprised of two pieces: The engine shown on the first page and the bucket wheel displayed on the second, which fits into the 'braces' of the engine as displayed on the previous page. The energy input for the engine is on its side, the back features a redstone control panel and the item output.<br>As the excavator digs up ores, the yield of the vein slowly decreases, but a vein of minerals can last for <config;i;excavator_depletion_days> days of consecutive digging.

ie.manual.category.computers.name=Computer support

ie.manual.entry.computer.general.name=General information ☎
ie.manual.entry.computer.general.subtext=Technology from the future
ie.manual.entry.computer.general0=Many of the machines described in this manual can be controlled using computers from OpenComputers. An Adapter has to be used to connect the machine to the network. If the machine is a multiblock that has a redstone port, that is where you can attach your computer. Otherwise please check the machine-specific entry in this chapter. The following pages describe some commonly used return types and methods.
ie.manual.entry.computer.general1=Multiblocks with a redstone port can be enabled and disabled using computers as well as redstone:<br>§lenableComputerControl( enabled:bool)§r: This enables or disables computer control for the machine. The machine will ignore redstone signals while this is enabled. This will not automatically reset when the computer is removed.<br>§lsetEnabled(enable:bool)§r: Enables or disables the machine, like a redstone signal would. This only works if computer control is enabled.
ie.manual.entry.computer.general2=§lItem stacks§r are a very common return type. They consist of a table containing these entries:<br>§lname§r: the internal name of the item, e.g. "minecraft:cobblestone" for cobblestone<br>§lsize§r: the size of the item stack<br>§llabel§r: The name of the stack. Changes when the stack is renamed in an anvil.
ie.manual.entry.computer.general3=§ldamage§r: The damage (or, in most cases, metadata) of the item stack<br>§lmaxDamage§r: The maximum amount of damage the item can have before breaking<br>§lmaxSize§r: the maximum stack size for this item. 64 in most cases<br>§lhasTag§r: whether the stack has a nbt tag
ie.manual.entry.computer.general4=§lFluid stacks§r: A fluid stack represents some amount of a specific fluid that isn't necessarily in a tank. These entries are available in the returned table:<br>§lname§r: the unlocalized name of the fluid<br>§lamount§r: the amount of fluid, in millibuckets<br>§lhasTag§r: whether the fluid has a nbt tag
ie.manual.entry.computer.general5=§lFluid tanks§r are similar to fluid stacks, with the difference that this fluid is inside a tank. The returned table has the same entries as the table for a fluid stack. Additionally the capacity of the tank the fluid is in is stored in the entry §lcapacity§r

ie.manual.entry.computer.arcfurnace.name=Arc Furnace ☎
ie.manual.entry.computer.arcfurnace.subtext=Not a reactor
ie.manual.entry.computer.arcFurnace0=§lisActive()§r: returns a boolean that is true if the arc furnace is currently processing something and false otherwise<br>§lgetInputStack(int slot)§r:returns the stack in the specified input slot (1-12). The table additionally has the keys §lprogress§r and §lmaxProgress§r to store the current progress and the progress at which it will be finished on the
ie.manual.entry.computer.arcFurnace1=specified slot (both values in ticks)<br>§lgetOutputStack(int slot)§r:returns the stack in the specified output slot(1-6)<br>§lgetAdditiveStack(int slot)§r: returns the stack in the specified additive slot (1-4)<br>§lgetSlagStack()§r: returns the stack in the slag slot<br>§lhasElectrodes()§r:returns a boolean indicating whether all 3 electrodes in the arc furnace are valid<br>§lgetElectrode(int slot)§r: returns the item stack of the specified electrode (1-4)
ie.manual.entry.computer.arcFurnace2=§lgetMaxEnergyStored()§r: returns the maximum amount of energy that can be stored in this arc furnace<br>§lgetEnergyStored()§r: returns the amount of energy currently stored in this arc furnace

ie.manual.entry.computer.bottlingmachine.name=Bottling Machine ☎
ie.manual.entry.computer.bottlingmachine.subtext=Fill 'er up!
ie.manual.entry.computer.bottlingmachine0=§lisActive()§r: returns a boolean that is true if the bottling machine is currently processing something and false otherwise<br>§lgetMaxEnergyStored()§r: returns the maximum amount of energy that can be stored in this machine<br>§lgetEnergyStored()§r: returns the amount of energy currently stored in this machine
ie.manual.entry.computer.bottlingmachine1=§lgetTank()§r: returns the contents of the fluid tank



ie.manual.entry.computer.sampleDrill.name=Core Sample Drill ☎
ie.manual.entry.computer.sampleDrill.subtext=Guaranteed representative samples
ie.manual.entry.computer.sampleDrill0=The sample drill can be connected to a computer on its bottom block.<br>§lgetSampleProgress()§r: returns the current sample progress, 1 means that the sampling is finished, 0 means that the sampling hasn't started yet<br>§lisSamplingFinished()§r: returns true if the drill has finished sampling, otherwise it returns false<br>§lgetVeinUnlocalizedName()§r: returns the unlocalized name of the found vein
ie.manual.entry.computer.sampleDrill1=§lgetVeinLocalizedName()§r: returns the localized name of the found vein<br>§lgetVeinIntegrity()§r: returns the integrity of the vein, 1 represents a full vein, 0 an empty vein and -1 an infinite vein<br>§lgetEnergyStored()§r: returns the amount of energy stored in the drill<br>§lgetMaxEnergyStored()§r: returns the maximum amount of energy stored in this drill

ie.manual.entry.computer.crusher.name=Crusher ☎
ie.manual.entry.computer.crusher.subtext=Keep your hands out!
ie.manual.entry.computer.crusher0=§lisActive()§r: returns whether the crusher is currently crushing items<br>§lgetInputQueue()§r: returns the input queue of the crusher as a table. The table contains the places in the input queue as keys (starting at 1). Each place in the queue is saved as a table with the following keys:<br>"progress": the current progress
ie.manual.entry.computer.crusher1="maxProgress": the progress the crusher has to reach to finish the recipe<br>"input": the input item stacks<br>"output": the main output stack.<br>§lgetMaxEnergyStored()§r: returns the maximum amount of energy stored in this crusher<br>§lgetEnergyStored()§r: returns the amount of energy that is stored in this crusher

ie.manual.entry.computer.dieselgen.name=Diesel Generator ☎
ie.manual.entry.computer.dieselgen.subtext=Better than volume: More volume.
ie.manual.entry.computer.dieselgen0=§lgetTankInfo()§r: returns the internal diesel tank

ie.manual.entry.computer.energymeter.name=Current Transformer ☎
ie.manual.entry.computer.energymeter.subtext=Just an ADC
ie.manual.entry.computer.energymeter0=The bottom block of a current transformer can be connected to a computer. It will provide a single method, §lgetAvgEnergy()§r , that returns the average amount of energy per tick that was transferred through the transformer during the last 20 ticks.

ie.manual.entry.computer.excavator.name=Excavator ☎
ie.manual.entry.computer.excavator.subtext=Better than Dwarves
ie.manual.entry.computer.excavator0=§lisActive()§r: returns whether the excavator is running. This does not say anything about the existence of a mineral vein<br>§lgetEnergyStored()§r: returns the amount of energy currently stored in this excavator<br>§lgetMaxEnergyStored()§r: returns the maximum amount of energy that can be stored in this excavator

ie.manual.entry.computer.squeezerAndFermenter.name=Fermenter & Squeezer ☎
ie.manual.entry.computer.squeezerAndFermenter.subtext=Double post
ie.manual.entry.computer.squeezerAndFermenter0=The computer support for fermenters and squeezers is extremely similar.<br>§lgetRecipe(int slot)§r: returns 3 tables and 1 integer describing the recipe that has the item in the specified input slot (1-9) as the input. The first table is the input stack, the second table the output item, the third table the output fluid and the integer is the time it takes for this recipe to process. If no recipe is found, only the string "No recipe
ie.manual.entry.computer.squeezerAndFermenter1=found" will be returned.<br>§lgetInputStack(int slot)§r: returns the stack in the specified input slot (1-9)<br>§lgetOutputStack()§r: returns the stack in the item output slot<br>§lgetFluid()§r: returns the output fluid tank<br>§lgetEmptyCannisters§r: returns the stack of empty cannisters in the top right slot<br>§lgetFilledCannisters()§r: returns the stack of filled cannisters in the bottom right<br>§lgetEnergyStored§r: returns the amount of energy stored in this machine
ie.manual.entry.computer.squeezerAndFermenter2=§lgetMaxEnergyStored()§r: returns the maximum amount of energy that can be stored in this machine

ie.manual.entry.computer.floodlight.name=Floodlight ☎
ie.manual.entry.computer.floodlight.subtext=Like LEDs but Retro
ie.manual.entry.computer.floodlight0=The following assumes that the floodlight is placed on the ground. The floodlight can be connected to a computer on it's bottom face. After rotating a floodlight using a computer you have to wait for one second before you can rotate it again.<br>§lturnAroundXZ(boolean dir)§r: changes the pitch of the floodlight<br>§lturnAroundY(boolean dir)§r: turns the floodlight as if it was rightclicked on its top or bottom<br>§lcanTurn()§r: returns whether the floodlight can rotate again yet
ie.manual.entry.computer.floodlight1=§lgetEnergyStored()§r: returns the amount of energy stored in the floodlight<br>§lgetMaxEnergyStored()§r: returns the maximum amount of energy that can be stored in the floodlight<br>§lwaitForCooldown()§r: waits until the floodlight can be turned again.

ie.manual.entry.computer.refinery.name=Refinery ☎
ie.manual.entry.computer.refinery.subtext=Digital Diesel
ie.manual.entry.computer.refinery0=§lgetInputFluidTanks()§r: returns a table storing the input tanks in the keys "input1" and "input2"<br>§lgetOutputTank()§r: returns the output tank<br>§lgetRecipe()§r: returns a table containing the input fluids in the keys "input1" and "input2" and the output fluid in the key "output"<br>§lisValidRecipe()§r: returns whether a recipe with the current input fluids exists
ie.manual.entry.computer.refinery1=§lgetEmptyCannisters()§r: returns a table containing the stacks of empty cannisters, the keys "input1" and "input2" for the input tanks, the key "output" for the output tank<br>§lgetMaxEnergyStored()§r: returns the maximum of energy that can be stored in this refinery<br>§lgetEnergyStored()§r: returns the amount of energy stored in the refinery

ie.manual.entry.computer.assembler.name=Assembler ☎
ie.manual.entry.computer.assembler.subtext=objdump -d
ie.manual.entry.computer.assembler0=The bottom row of an assembler can be connected to a computer.<br>§lhasIngredients(int recipe)§r: returns whether the ingredients for the specified recipe (1-3) are available<br>§lsetEnabled(int slot, boolean on)§r: enables or disables the specified recipe (1-3). If a recipe is disabled, it will not be crafted even if the materials are available.<br>§lgetRecipe(int recipe)l§r: returns a table containing the specified recipe (0-2). The keys "in1", "in2", ..., "in9" store the recipe inputs, the key "out"
ie.manual.entry.computer.assembler1=stores the output<br>§lgetTank(int tank)§r: returns the specified tank (1-3)<br>§lgetMaxEnergyStored()§r: returns the maximum amount of energy that can be stored in the assembler<br>§lgetEnergyStored()§r: returns the amount of energy stored in the assembler<br>§lgetStackInSlot(int slot)§r: returns the stack in the specified input slot (1-18).<br>§lgetBufferStack(recipe:int)§r: returns the output buffer slot for the specified recipe (1-3)

ie.manual.entry.computer.capacitor.name=Capacitors ☎
ie.manual.entry.computer.capacitor.subtext=Many Farads at a lot of Volts
ie.manual.entry.computer.capacitor0=Any capacitor can be connected to a computer on any side.<br>§lgetEnergyStored()§r: returns the amount of energy that is stored<br>§lgetMaxEnergyStored()§r: returns the amount of energy that can be stored

ie.manual.entry.computer.teslaCoil.name=Tesla coil ☎
ie.manual.entry.computer.teslaCoil.subtext=No, it isn't an SSTC
ie.manual.entry.computer.teslaCoil0=§lisActive()§r: returns whether the coil is currently active<br>§lsetRSMode(boolean)§r: changes whether the coil is switch on by a high or a low redstone signal<br>§lsetPowerMode(boolean)§r: changes whether the coil is running in high (true)- or low (false)-power mode (<link;teslaCoil;§o§nexplanation§r;2>). This command can only be used if the coil is not active.

ie.manual.entry.computer.mixer.name=Mixer ☎
ie.manual.entry.computer.mixer.subtext=Vats of Cookie Dough!
ie.manual.entry.computer.mixer0=§lisActive()§r: returns whether the mixer is currently active.<br>§lisValidRecipe()§r: returns whether a valid recipe exists for any of the input item and fluid combinations.<br>§lgetEnergyStored()§r: returns the amount of energy stored in this machine.<br>§lgetMaxEnergyStored()§r: returns the maximum amount of energy that can be stored in this machine<br>§lgetInputStack(int slot)§r: returns the stack in the specified input slot (1-12). The table additionally has the keys
ie.manual.entry.computer.mixer1=§lprogress§r and §lmaxProgress§r to store the current progress and the progress at which it will be finished on the specified slot (both values in ticks).<br>§lgetTank()§r: returns the bottom fluid in the tank.

#SHADER INFO
desc.immersiveengineering.info.shader.details.rosequartz=First shader ever made!<br>No direct reference, though the name itself was inspired by a character in the „Inkheart“ series of novels
desc.immersiveengineering.info.shader.details.argo=No direct reference, but style+colour were inspired by the videogame 'Destiny'.
desc.immersiveengineering.info.shader.details.sunstrike=No direct reference but name+colour were inspired by Sunbreaker Titans from the videogame 'Destiny'.
desc.immersiveengineering.info.shader.details.locus=Named and coloured after the mercenary 'Locus' in RvB Seasons 11-13.
desc.immersiveengineering.info.shader.details.felix=Named and coloured after the mercenary 'Felix' in RvB Seasons 11-13.
desc.immersiveengineering.info.shader.details.sharkface=Named and coloured after the mercenary 'Sharkface' in RvB Seasons 9 and 13.
desc.immersiveengineering.info.shader.details.dragonsbreath=Named and designed after the exotic rocket launcher of the same name.
desc.immersiveengineering.info.shader.details.hawk=Named and designed after the exotic handcannon 'Hawkmoon'.
desc.immersiveengineering.info.shader.details.eyas=Named and designed after the handcannon 'Eyasluna'. Hawkmoon's little brother.
desc.immersiveengineering.info.shader.details.magnum=Designed by a contest winner!
desc.immersiveengineering.info.shader.details.fox=Very fluffy. Named in reference to a specific IRC channel and its inhabitants.
desc.immersiveengineering.info.shader.details.vaulttec=Coloured and named in obvious reference.
desc.immersiveengineering.info.shader.details.sponsor=Obvious design reference to the Fallout series, but named indistinctly.
desc.immersiveengineering.info.shader.details.massfusion=The design references the energy weapons of Fallout series.
desc.immersiveengineering.info.shader.details.stormflower=Named and designed after the bladed SMGs wielded by Lie Ren.
desc.immersiveengineering.info.shader.details.milo=Named and designed after the spear/rifle wielded by Pyrrha Nikos.
desc.immersiveengineering.info.shader.details.trident=Named and designed after the lasergun/spear wielded by Neptune Vasilias.
desc.immersiveengineering.info.shader.details.chloris=Named and designed after the hoverboard/revolvers wielded by Reese Chloris.
desc.immersiveengineering.info.shader.details.crescentrose=Named and designed after the "high-caliber sniper-scythe" wielded by Ruby Rose.
desc.immersiveengineering.info.shader.details.qrow=Named after Qrow Branwen and designed after his sword/scythe.
desc.immersiveengineering.info.shader.details.lususnaturae=Named after a song on the Volume 4 soundtrack. Also, the name sounds badass.
desc.immersiveengineering.info.shader.details.vanguard=Named and coloured after the Vanguard faction.
desc.immersiveengineering.info.shader.details.regal=Designed after weaponry in the 'King's Fall' raid.
desc.immersiveengineering.info.shader.details.harrowed=Designed after weaponry in the heroic 'King's Fall'.
desc.immersiveengineering.info.shader.details.taken=Designed after the 'Taken' enemies.
desc.immersiveengineering.info.shader.details.angelsthesis=Named after the themesong, colourscheme based on Evangelion Unit EVA-01.
desc.immersiveengineering.info.shader.details.sutherland=Named and designed after the Knightmare Frame used by the Holy Britannian Empire.
desc.immersiveengineering.info.shader.details.exia=Named and designed after the close combat Gundam Mobile Suit.
desc.immersiveengineering.info.shader.details.gurrenlagann=Named in reference to and designed after the main and titular Gunman.
desc.immersiveengineering.info.shader.details.dominator=Named and designed in reference to the massive handcannon of the anime series. Doesn't transform, I'm afraid.
desc.immersiveengineering.info.shader.details.warbird=Design inspired by planes of the previous great wars.
desc.immersiveengineering.info.shader.details.matrix=No particular inspiration, just another use for the pipe overlay.
desc.immersiveengineering.info.shader.details.twili=Named and designed in reference to the race of the same name.
desc.immersiveengineering.info.shader.details.usurper=Named and designed in reference to Zant, the usurper to the throne.
desc.immersiveengineering.info.shader.details.ancient=Named and designed after the ancient Sheikah technology
desc.immersiveengineering.info.shader.details.glacis=No particular inspiration, decided to experiment with transparency.
desc.immersiveengineering.info.shader.details.phoenix=No particular inspiration, just another use for the gradient type of shaders.
desc.immersiveengineering.info.shader.details.radiant=Named and designed after world 'Radiant Garden'.
desc.immersiveengineering.info.shader.details.hollow=Named and designed after world 'Hollow Bastion'.
desc.immersiveengineering.info.shader.details.microshark=Named in reference to and designed after the Minishark and Megashark machineguns.
desc.immersiveengineering.info.shader.details.n7=Named and designed after the highest designation of the Alliance special forces.
desc.immersiveengineering.info.shader.details.normandy=Named and designed after Normandy SR2 in its Alliance colour scheme.
desc.immersiveengineering.info.shader.details.omnitool=Named and designed after the holographic multitools.
desc.immersiveengineering.info.shader.details.kindled=Named in obvious reference. Designed in an attempt to incorporate vanilla textures and animations into shaders.
desc.immersiveengineering.info.shader.details.darkfire=Named and designed after the Dark Fire magic employed by Riku and Terra.
desc.immersiveengineering.info.shader.details.erruption=No particular reference, just another use of vanilla textures, specificially the block breaking overlay.
desc.immersiveengineering.info.shader.details.terra=Heavily inspired by Livingwood and Terrasteel materials, and incoporating some of Botania's textures.
desc.immersiveengineering.info.shader.details.waaagh=Yellow makez da biggest BOOOMS!<br>Designed in obvious reference to the Orks in the 40k universe.
